okay we're
live Let's
uh check on a couple quick things here
and get started on this
again does this show up on X yes it
does Let's uh how do I post this guess
it's already posted
now building
High control test
M or
RL okay
so I get rid of all this stuff in the
background and switch to screen
share we got a bunch of stuff to do
today first thing is going to be
to go through
oh there's some chat stuff offline
that's funny uh the first thing today is
going to be to go through some stuff on
the
environments um and see if there's a way
to re-engineer things just a little bit
to
be easier to
train
um so the one big issue with
multi-agent I guess single agent as
wealth the m is slow but especially with
multi-agent if you got a bunch of Agents
and they're all at the same point in the
environment like they're all at the
start they're all at the middle they all
they're all at the end this kind of
offsets your data batches so you don't
really get enough diversity of data in
each batch and it really screws up
learning purely scaled problem right you
can always scale uh scale past this but
it's way nicer when you have an M that
looks like the multi snake one that I
made if I pull that up real quick uh
if I pull up the multi snake and
actually I have it locally don't
I so like these are all snakes right
and the snakes are doing their own thing
on their own time so like they will
individually lose periodically they'll
individually some of the snakes will be
longer some will be shorter um and what
that means is you always have if you
just look at all all the snakes at any
one point in time you always have a
really diverse batch of data and the way
that we did it with the particle
M's where's that gif continuous that
gif no not
this what did we call
it uh grid.
GI so with this type of environment that
we built right like they all start off
in the same place and then they move out
and then they're all sort of here with
some of them stuck it's a way harder
time and then like most of the data is
just agents being stuck in the middle
with no food around so not only do you
not have great batches of data to begin
with but like this is effectively empty
data because nothing that these agents
in the middle do is going to get them
any food any reward um so you have like
80% dead data in your batch
so we need to come up with a way around
that uh and generally to just structure
these M's in a more reasonable way
because you can see these individual
agents are actually they're eating a lot
of food right like these they're doing
very reasonable things
here like they're not just moving
totally randomly like the the path
they're cutting looks pretty wide to
me so we'll uh we'll figure that out now
um
and then we're going to try to do some
experiments that's the main thing this
is probably going to be a pretty slow
stream um because it's going to take me
a bit to figure out how I want to
restructure the environment start just a
little
bit how I'm going to restructure things
and then the experiments are going to
take a bit none of this is super hard I
think it's a relatively easy work day
which is good this is uh end of the week
pretty tired
um but this will make a big difference
and my hope is that if I just kind of
sit here and think through this and put
in the hours I don't have at least I
don't think I have any meetings today
I'm hoping I just build this thing for
like seven hours hopefully don't run out
of steam and uh we will
get this environment to a point where
it's actually useful and usable and we
can start actually benchmarking discreet
versus Contin
stuff
so I mean just right
away I could spawn all these agents
randomly around the map
right and then I could put every time
they eat a food you put a new food back
that'd be very similar to the snake
environment actually pretty much
identical to the snake environment just
they they don't turn into snakes right
uh that would be pretty
reasonable that definitely that would be
pretty reasonable
able it'd potentially be harder to see
progress um potentially would be harder
to see
progress
because I like it's very clear here that
they're how much of the food they're
eating right so you have this very nice
consistent metric for
that but it would fix the
problem to get like this
simple forging type
en I also don't know how many agents we
can support on a map this size if we do
it that way and have to think about
that and we also wouldn't get like this
nice spread
behavior um the coordination
aspect is pretty
interesting I kind of like seeing this
diffuse type thing but it's really hard
to get this to work the way we want it
to let's think about the other
environments that we have to see if it
would make more sense in those
forging Predator prey this one I think
we dropped group up and
puffer
um so Predator
prey I don't know
I mean the thing with this is like if we
structure this
correctly if we just structure the
environment correctly such that we get
diverse data we can probably trust that
we'll be able to learn really
interesting
policies just
emergent even if we don't have like
clearly two groups at the start or
something like that so I'm just thinking
like what if with all these environments
we just spawn all the agents
randomly uh we randomly kill agents with
some
probability so that some are always
resetting or whatever and they don't get
stuck so with the Predator prey ones for
instance like you get maybe emergent
flocking type
stuff that could be
cool encirclement and stuff like
that that'd be pretty
interesting and then with the grp
grouping up like maybe you
get yeah there's all sorts of stuff that
could come out of that actually if you
think about it
right be pretty hard to
learn but uh if it's going to
happen this is the type of environment
that it could happen with I could
imagine
like if I'm thinking about how is a
person if I were controlling the agents
how I would solve this problem right so
group up is like go find the agents of
your same color and like merge up with
them
um probably I would like go to local
neighboring ones first and then we'd
travel around as a little cluster
looking for other clusters to merge and
you'd kind of get like this emergent
hierarchical gomera of clustering kind
of a
thing that would be
cool predator prey similarly right you
could get
like groups of the Predators trying to
flock
around um that would be
interesting and trying to like encircle
other
agents that would be pretty
cool
yeah uh and what about the optimize
thing no that one we're going to just
drop so that's four
tasks and then the puffer lib task would
be like the sanity task right that you
should be able to
learn so forging Predator prey group up
we might need one more but I think if we
start with these and we just restructure
them a little
bit so that we don't have this like big
reset Behavior first of all it'll be
faster this environment should run if
we're not having to do resets on the map
this environment should run 10 mil plus
single
core um so you know it's nice to have
another just stupidly highper
environment and uh it should be a lot
easier to learn so even though like the
initial conditions aren't as well set up
for interesting stuff to happen I think
just by virtue of the learning quality
being way higher we should still be able
to get very interesting stuff to
happen so let's start on
that uh cool looks like the Twitter
streams warmed up a little
bit is there any dumb engagement farming
I can do for this because it is useful
when people see puffer
lib large
really not many people do that
where your Sims
dude I do not see your
Sims oh wait I remember seeing this
project yeah yeah yeah wait I remember
seeing this project well you're not
running 100,000 of
these
um that's
fun kind of different but okay
yeah I don't have any I don't have any
clickbait post stuff to put today
unfortunately um whatever we'll do more
of that next week we'll do real work
today we will start in here
here and we will start in the continuous
file move this
mic I'm probably going to be sitting
back a little bit
today
okay so it's the initial conditions and
then their resets
right yeah
and I don't pass done signals
ever
right so I'm
actually do I need these initial
conditions
really yes because I need to set the
agent
colors um
and I think we'll just make it so that
whenever you eat a food a new food
spawns
right yeah that's what we'll do we can
literally just take this function from
snake where is
it see grid
continuous and
this function right
here we'll just take this
one
oops this does not need an
underscore it is private anyways
spawn food
so row column tile this thing has self.
height and width right it has
grid and then there's no corpse uh
there's no concept of a corpse in this
so
it's just if it's empty you place of
food
yeah and then when you eat a food you
spawn a
food that's
all
uh yeah that's probably okay
um we'll leave it like this for
now and then when they eat a food which
is in
step we
do thought spawn
food and it should be just that
easy so now we have
the that was that built too fast what
happened
is this on the is this on my remote
machine oh yeah this is on my remote
machine
um I want to Du locally for this
okay now we're back on the
local
and what did I change here
mesh
[Music]
grid uh that's that's no big deal
right
yeah this is actually going to make it
so much faster now that I'm thinking
about it cuz we don't have to do we are
only only going to have to ever call
reset once which is where you want to be
you don't want to be having to clear out
stuff in your environment if you can
avoid it it's way better if like when an
agent dies you immediately respawn it
and just handle that one agent that type
of a Sim is just so much nicer to work
with
okay let's see if it
compiles uh I have to import
rant this is the C random
function which is very
convenient because it lets us not call
back to python
that's
good okay
perfect now we will go back to uh grid
continuous and we're going to adjust the
setup of
Spawn yeah we're going to set adjust the
setup of Spawn
um right now we have all the
positions in the center
right spawn position
cans and what I would like to do is I
would like to make these
randomized
spawn hands p. random
Rand width and height can be different
here
right
so I wonder if uh it takes
tensors let's see if Rand takes
tensors so nump Random Rand convenience
function WS random. sample
but does it take tensors
like oh Rand in is what we want
right low
high array of
in let's take a look maybe uh maybe we
can do this in one line random positions
um we could also just put it in the scon
right be slightly
slower maybe slightly slower to
initialize kind of like that
idea
um well there's some downsides let me
just real quick see if this this is
easy
rant so low is going to be like zero and
then high
is uh like let's say four and
eight that actually works doesn't
it and then I want like let's say I want
five of these
was it 52 like
this that's actually really
nice let's do it this way it'll be
easier I didn't realize you could
specify a topple
bounce so
zero uh I did row comma call right so
it's going to be height width and then
it's numb agent
to position
cans
okay uh I think that does it let's
check forging reward forging this is all
correct
now let's
see mode
eval let's see if this
works and what we're looking for is
agents that are cleanly randomly
distributed across the
map now not a fan of how slow this is
being to
initialize I suspect
there's I suspect this is stuck in the
spawn
Loop and we'll give it a moment just to
be
sure oh that's
weird SE snake
what M grid continuous
something bizarre
happened okay well first of
all this should be
importable right this is yeah the step
ball is
exists um
have to just build it
again okay well something wasn't built
fully
so maybe that's
it ah
perfect just a data
mismatch expected float got
long yep
the
technically uh these positions
here technically these positions are
supposed to be floats because we are
storing the agent positions as floats in
order to support continuous and discret
versions of this environment uh now this
is going to seg vaa which is just
lovely um and If This Were C I would be
having a very bad time right about now
but because this is scon it's going to
be a lot easier to fix this and the
first thing I want to see is to make
sure that I actually did height comma
width in the spawn positions the way
that I think I
did
so v y v x YX
yes so I did do this the way think I did
it oh uh I know the
issue I don't even have to debug it I
just know the issue uh the issue is that
this needs to be uh we need to subtract
division so we have this border at the
edge of the map
right and the border is meant so that
agents can't fly off the edge of
it it's a common technique in
reinforcement learning to like just pad
the edges of the map because then when
you're Computing observations you don't
have to pad the observations there just
is padding built into the
map it's much faster that
way
so uh it's spawning them on the
padding and the way that we fix this is
Vision range is going to be the Min and
then this is minus
Vision
range I think that's it I don't think
you need need minus
one
right yeah because the this should be
correct
oops there we
go don't need to recompile should just
be able to run
it still seg faulting
really well okay now we need to actually
debug and uh this is where scon comes in
we just take all these properties that
are currently set to false we set them
to true and then we actually get
reasonable error messages out of C
because it will just do some additional
python
work uh it will do some additional
python work once we recompile and it
will tell us like hey this variable's
out of bounds here's a reasonable error
message this is the main thing that I
generally want in C which is why I don't
use C native for a lot of
stuff I don't know I'd maybe check out
Zig or something for that but syon is
good for me for what I'm doing
here out of bounds on access
zero so that's what we expected we
expected it to
be out of bounds
um Y
is why when we reset
this are we going
through all of these different
cans if agent
idx oh I see
um so we're spawning
agents until we get
to the uh numb
agents
so we're going to just print this Bond
idx it's probably an off by
one though I'm not seeing it just
looking at
it I saw the errors up here so yes so we
have this is 4096 4096 is out of
bounds um how did did it get
to how did it get to here I thought num
agents was also
496 is it not also 46 here I change
this and num agents is also
4096 so what we do we did agent to
zero you only increase it if it's empty
right and there's a
break so how does agent idx get to be
496 um am I missing something dumb
here oh uh I see the spawn index
right so I didn't make enough spawn
indices that's
fine uh the issue was that I made
exactly as many spawn positions as there
are agents and if some of them are occup
are occupied then that's not going to
work very well
so given
that there multiple different ways I
could do this and I don't want to commit
too much time yet because I don't know
which direction I want to go so I'm just
going to make this like I'm going to
make this way larger for now oops I'm
going to just do like 10
times and that's a dumb hack but it's
going to work for
now how's is it still out of
Bounce how's it still out of
Bounce oh cuz that I I set the wrong one
yeah it's it's here this it needs to be
here perfect so this is exactly what we
wanted this is very much like the snake
environment but the snakes don't get
longer right it's just like a particle
EMP and they can gather food and
whenever they eat a food a new f a food
will spawn in the place of the old food
this actually looks like pretty
reasonable density here might be a
little too dense we'll see you can
occasionally see some food like spawning
back into existence as it's eaten in
other
places
oops we're also going to do a
horizon let's make sure that we're not
accidentally resetting well there a few
different things we got to do uh until
we can run the experim ment on this
which will be very nice I'm interested
to see if it just immediately works way
better so we turn off all the checks
that make everything slow profiling is a
big one I notice I don't have C division
on
here I don't know if I do any division
in here we'll check that later uh I
think this one right here might be slow
right let's turn C division on as well
that's usually a big speed
optimization set that to true the rest
of them are to
false now if we go to grid
continuous
um so on
reset we fill the grid
empty and
we're going to get rid of this Horizon
thing we're just going to comment
it because I don't think that this is
useful so it's actually going to end up
making the code simpler if I'm correct
here rebuild
it we're going to do a speed test as
well because this should be way faster
than before
perfect still
runs we run grid
continuous
right we have to comment this as well
running a quick performance
test okay perfect this is faster than
the snake environment this is now 7.5
million steps per second single core on
my local desktop which will be well over
15 million steps per second on the uh
the really nice machine so very basic
Sim not even very impressive to get this
on a a simulation this simple but hey
it's the same Tech that's behind the
complex stuff
right so that's nice we've got this I
imagine this is going to be close to 20
million steps per second per core on the
main
machines
uh oh right it just it ran the same
thing twice yeah the way I have it set
up no
worries there's no UC variable so that's
fine uh okay so I think now we're ready
to train this
potentially let me make sure that it
trains let me sure that I make sure that
there AR any new bugs and we'll Commit
This up to the big machine we'll train
it a little
bit we'll see how it
goes looks like reasonable reward looks
like rewards going
up welcome JB
JBL um yeah this actually this Project's
coming into fruition now you know it
takes a few days before you really get
anything going out of something like
like this but uh you're going to see I
think today is going to be the day where
we get a lot of progress I got a whole
bunch of time today unless I've
forgotten any meetings I should have
like seven hours to do
this we'll see I may need to go get more
coffee at some point
other than that shouldn't be any
particularly bad
interruptions uh let's see
make random
re oh uh we forgot to do something
right yeah we forgot to do something
very important
uh okay so this will take another moment
then we need to do respawn
prob so we want to randomly respawn
agents and this is to break this helps
break up symmetries and stuff it's just
going to make the environment way better
conditioned for the type of experiments
we want to do so we're going to do agent
respawn
prob uh equal
to uh 0.01 so one in a th
and then we'll pass this to the C
environment as
well agent respawn
prob or
float agent
respawn Rob
RL is RL is going to be so back this
year this is the year of RL actually
working and it's going to be directly
because of all the stuff you're seeing
here uh I didn't actually add the logic
though for this right
so I do need to add a spawn agent
function anyways
here uh so I can just
do oh we can be uh we can be cheeky with
this
right
uh in
like was it material no thing to to
spawn on
me yeah that's how we do it that's very
clean so spawn food like this right
yeah and now what we do
is
um let me think where I want to add
this I think
that I think I probably want to do it
here if
H that's pretty nice auto
complete welcome letter
e this
is just me streaming RL Dev all day
um I don't know this is a relatively new
thing but um the idea of these is just
it's fun for me to stream my uh my
progress on stuff and it doesn't
distract me it actually I kind of tend
to distract myself when I'm working
normally so in some ways it actually
helps me focus a little bit depends on
what I'm doing um and uh the stuff I'm
building is thing it's stuff I think is
going to make a huge differ in RL in the
very near future so this is kind of just
like watch RL get fixed live
um not particularly educational by
Design but I think it will end up being
educational and I'll occasionally answer
some
questions it's funny cuz like none of
this stuff is beginner stuff but just
the naturally the way I build stuff I
build stuff in ways that's very simple
so hopefully it's relatively easy to
follow follow for
folks thanks
man though if that were the main
priority it would be uh I wouldn't be
doing all this cool open source Dev
right that's all longer term first
priority is to fix all this science
that's
broken okay what's this what did I
forget with agent respawn prob here grid
continuous
I just forget to make the
variable yeah I forgot to make the
variable oh big
deal okay so this now
trains 350,000 steps per second locally
that's pretty
cool and the reward goes up so now we're
going to commit all this stuff up and
we're going to run it on the big box
respawn
agents
randomly uh and we're going to be
hopping back and forth between local and
remote today a bunch so I'm probably
going to just make
another another term for myself here
what what is wrong with my uh my Docker
file that I don't get into this
automatically
right
1.0 do not have
1.0 let's get rid of this now it should
work
saves me a little bit
of uh
convenience all
right
oh
nice we got C grid continuous we got
grid
continuous we got to compile locally
and what do I have in my default config
here is it a 300 mil
config I wouldn't mind running a 300 mil
config it should only be a few minutes
maybe I want to run a 150 to start
though
oops 150
mil a little bit faster
right uh red continuous
mod train VC
multiprocessing
cack I'll set his Baseline to make it
easier training at a million steps per
second reward just went up and then went
back
down is food not actually respawning
correctly
let's go look at
that I expect that to be a problem with
the environment more than anything it
could also just be that there are too
many agents eating all the food right I
would not be surprised by that
either
so where's the environment yeah reward
is it's not zero it's just very
low what's the high perf Tech and Puffer
that makes existing High dim M like proc
gen run fast cuz a lot of existing
framework support Vector m is syon
really that correct so here's the thing
if the m is already written the m is
written in whatever it's written in I
can't make it fast just by like doing
Sim Tech on a Sim that's already written
um that said we have incredibly fast
support for proen and we don't even need
their C++ vectorization puffer lib has
very very fast uh CPU vectorization code
there's a Blog post on it I believe that
I wrote uh somewhere if you really want
the uh the super technical
version where is
it oh right I didn't do a one blog post
there's actually there's way better
there's a white paper on
it yeah it's on papers with code it's on
archives so there's a full paper on the
architecture behind this there's like a
a page here that has all the
vectorization tricks we use to make it
fast but the high level of it is that um
if your vectorization is really fast
then there's a point to making your
environment fast because you are no
longer bottlenecked by having a uh a
slow V uh slow vectorization like
there's no point in making net hack
faster for instance um without good VC
because literally like the vectorization
doesn't work with net hack it makes it
slower at least default does if you use
puffer lib instead of making it slower
it makes it 10 times
faster so that was a big part of my
effort originally I had to make that
work in order for any of this Sim Tech
to matter and now that it does work we
can have fun things like this where we
train it a million steps per second with
dead simple scon environment code and uh
here you go we're getting rewards back I
don't know why it crashed like this
originally that's kind of weird but uh
it looks like it went back up so let's
let's see if we can evaluate this
while that sinks I'm going to turn the
AC down real
quick actually managing to freeze myself
in the summer in California
okay so this is the
simulator and these things are
apparently good at eating food is this
true they seem pretty good at eating
food
right yeah look at these guys they
follow the food they eat all the food
right
that looks pretty reasonable to
me they're doing like pretty optimal
local pathing right around wherever the
food
is like they're doing like zigzags
through the patterns yeah that's pretty
good so we train this in two two minutes
very suboptimal hyper parameters
um and we have like a reasonable little
thing
of course we can add more agents we can
have fewer agents we can have more food
we can have less food so this is very
tunable but the base thing is there the
base thing should be very fast as well
should probably uh check that with the
latest version of it but I expect it to
be very
fast where's the other one
Pon
grit maybe a little slower now with the
additional food and respawn
code no still good still over 7 million
per second on the slow machine uh
actually you know just for
fun just so we see how fast this thing
is
let's run it on the big
machine okay 16 million steps per
second it's
adequate it's a little bit faster than
the snake m not much
faster um but yeah same exact Tech as
the snake can so not surprising
um so now that that
works let's see if we can try some of
the uh other Sims the other Sims out
what did I change
here just change the config okay so we
can go back to local Dev for a moment
here and we can think about which of
these we want to potentially do next I
would like to do one of the Cooperative
environments next because those are
easier to understand the reward curves
on
so reward group init group this is
actually can we just train this to begin
with if I just do like uh if I just make
this in it
function in it
group like
this and
I mode TR does this work
yeah it just works as is okay
so where' the thing
go yeah
here group
and let's see if we get any uh
interesting
curves out of this
reward stuck at negative
one the reward should not be stuck at
negative 1 so I think that there's a
scaling
issue oh I know what it is hold on yeah
yeah I know what it
is
obviously so that's just my mess
up so
you get a reward based
on agents in the same group being
around
and you need to
do greater than equal to agent one
so same
group okay so diff
reward yeah diff group is actually
different than this different uh from
this
right so it's going to
be
it's m.
buff
dot
servations greater than equal to agent
one
group was it it's
m something you can do and like this
it's
times and then it's
times
not same
group the thing is it was checking it
was including other stuff in the reward
so diff reward is now going to
be diff group.
suum same reward minus diff
reward and now we don't need to have
this over 100 it can be over
10 and then this should
be reasonable
maybe yeah negative
.03 this is better
um weird that it's not training anything
but we can we can deal with that from
the uh experiment
side fix
let's rerun this and see if it learns
now
the did I not pull this what
happened yeah I just forgot to pull the
changes okay this is actually training
now we'll see if the reward is actually
going up reward does seem very
small I think the reward function was
reasonable
though so we'll just have to see if it's
actually learning or
not yeah it is learning right
it's just going to take it a little
bit
0.003 yeah yeah so it is learning it's
just going to take a little bit and
we'll see what it comes up with I'm
actually kind of interested to see um if
we get anything interesting um any
interesting policies out of
it I also do have the ability to save
screenshots to w b if I want
to just just kind of uh eats up a lot of
storage but uh we might do that for the
full environment we'll
see for now it's pretty easy to just do
this now is this stable is the question
um I'm not seeing the reward getting any
better which leads me to believe that it
has not learned uh anything better than
the original
policy though you know that could be a
matter a matter of uh h pram tuning
scale many many different things so I
think that as long as we get some like I
want more reasonable Behavior than we
saw last night at the least right I want
something that doesn't just look like
salt Falling
Sand I usually watch brain w while
eating now I watch a dude fix RL live
now you're doing better than me by the
time I'm done with this I'm usually
watching something dumb
I try to reduce as much as possible that
um yeah I mean hopefully there are some
useful things to learn in here
uh I don't know I the reason I one of
the reasons I started doing this was
sort of like I said um it's oh look at
that it actually started learning a
bunch of cool stuff at the end there
right look at that
takeoff this is it we've got hard
takeoff for AI
H well anyways like one of the reasons I
started uh doing this is like the way I
build stuff is really simple it's
something I pride myself on like I build
these fancy systems but I do it in a way
that is I have like a really simple text
stack right it's scyon it's like really
short amounts of code um and hey you
know
even people who have not been working in
RL for a ton of time or whatever should
probably be able to pick some stuff up
from it and uh it's exciting as
well like the pace of
stuff well let's uh did we set the right
task in
this continuous secd
no it's
just let's make sure we have the right
task set
here yeah we do
so we know that we can get way better
results out of this by just training it
for a little longer because the curves
were sort of taking off in both of
these let's see
okay so we let it
run this one will take a little look
they are doing something reasonable you
can see all the red runs have grouped up
here I'm seeing little crust clusters of
red
ones
um the other
ones haven't quite figured it out yet so
I think it's color based right now I
think just the red ones have figured it
out
why are they not
moving wait how are they not moving
there isn't an option to not
move did they
die well they are
moving oh no there is an option to not
move my bad yes I did include an option
to not move
so the red ones have clustered up
a little bit I think this one is worth
running for
longer I think this one is just going to
be worth running for longer cuz like
that reward curve at the end uh it
should be very consistently
reproducible so let's just let's just go
to uh
150 let's just go to uh 300 mil it's not
that long to wait right and this going
to give us uh some good information as
well
because this was just starting to take
off
here yeah less than five
minutes these kind of reward curves are
always a pain because it looks like it's
not learning and then all of a sudden it
takes off but I will say that since I've
been doing hyperparameter tuning lately
I'm fairly confident that this type of a
shape uh we're going to be able to
improve upon this quite a bit just with
better hyper parameters this is probably
like too high entropy in this portion or
too low learning rate or something weird
and like you're going to get something
way more consistent just out of a hyper
pram tuning
run and yes too high entropy would be
supported by this graph it looks like
the first learning is this drop in
entropy and then the entropy sort of
reward is winning out and then
eventually it finds the better thing and
does it
here value loss does Skyrock poet but
it's very low it's
fine it will take it a while to learn uh
to predict that to predict that
accurately 66 mil on the new run already
I look looks
like
cool and then uh the other one we have
after this is predator prey that one's
going to be harder because the reward
curves aren't really going to tell us
very much um um but we'll run it
anyways
and then we'll I'll probably just build
the puffer one because it's pretty easy
I'm going to have to like open up
uh probably open like Photoshop and
Export an image as a bit map or
something for
this no big deal though
okay there it is there's the
takeoff we can see right here that it's
taking
off so boom
yeah and then the reward gets way way
higher
right still going
up a reward of one would correspond to
you being able to see one other agent of
your
color still increasing
rapidly I think starting to level off
though
no and now it's increasing rapidly
again I think this group environment is
actually one where you could get some
pretty interesting emergent behaviors if
you're just able to train it fast enough
and put enough data through it because I
could think of all sorts of strategies
that would look visually rather
interesting that you could learn in this
end as just a matter of whether the RL
can figure them out
look at
that just keeps getting
better I do not know if we actually did
the uh the resets on the agents
correctly it's possible that the agents
are Never Getting reset though I'd say
unlikely I thought 300 was going to be
enough to get like the curve to level
off but by the look of it it's just
going to keep going up the longer you
train
it it's pretty crazy because like 300
mil is way more than most researchers
will train their environments for even
on way more complicated tasks than this
so you know if you're getting progress
with like your first reasonable set of
hyper parameters for 300 mil and
something this simple and probably you
know your other researchers they're
going to have way worse hyper prams
because they can't afford to run sweeps
it really shows you the amount of scale
that's just missing in the
field yeah all the way up to
0.5 and still rapidly
increasing I think this should at least
be enough to get us something that is
visually interesting and uh of course we
can run much bigger
sweeps well the environment's not on GPU
the uh the environment is on CPU but yes
the training on GPU you don't get a
million step per second training on CPU
unfortunately but uh you do get well to
be fair actually if I built it for that
I probably could but it doesn't scale as
well the GPU runs scale way
better this is on the puffer
box okay so this is our reward curve
looks pretty
good and if we eval
this let's see what it's
done oh I can start to see it already
can you
little groups
of little groups of
Agents groups of
Reds not super amazing yet but like I'm
definitely seeing all the different
colors clustering together a little
bit and the reward was still going up
very
rapidly but according to this about 60%
of the agents can currently see one
other member of their color and they
also get penalized for seeing agents
that are different colors so like yeah
this is like a nice cluster right up
here right these are like nice clusters
of red agents cluster of red agents
cluster of gray agents I don't know if
the pink ones have quite figured it out
yet the pink ones don't seem to
realize uh the clustering thing yet the
gray ones have definitely figured it
out and the red ones have figured it out
oh it looks like the white ones have
figured it
out so maybe just the pink ones haven't
quite caught on yet I mean they are
represented differently in the neural
network so it is entirely possible that
it takes some longer than others that's
a nice cluster so this is kind of the
behavior I was expecting you see how
like this whole cluster is moving around
as one I was expecting them to like go
like look for other white agents here to
join them I think that's the type of
behavior we're going to get yet once
um well once this thing trains
properly but this is definitely
compelling enough as a start right we
can see all these little clusters in
here I am somewhat afraid that they're
going to just learn to go to the edges
because like along the edges it's way
easier to find other
agents so that could be a degenerate
case we potentially have resolution
method mechanisms for that though you
know we can just penalize them for that
we could just like you know reward him
based on distance from Center or
something as well um the longer you run
this actually the cooler this is getting
right like these clusters are becoming
much more visual uh much more
visible this is like one of those Sims
that yeah I think that this is going to
be something that you have to run over
like hours or something I mean hours of
simulated time obviously we can do it in
seconds a second seconds of real
time but like look at all these clusters
of white agents
here
right that exactly what we
wanted and they're slowly moving around
as well they're slowly moving around and
picking up other
agents so I'm quite happy with this
um I'm quite happy with this wait yeah
you can have just a 1 billion step run
going in the background should only take
16 minutes uh I could do that but then
we're not going to be able to run other
experiments uh in the meanwhile um
actually technically I do have two spare
machines right
now
so let me just double check in the
background that the the other run that I
had going uh on that machine has
completed we can do a one bill run if uh
if that is the
case no problem with
that let me
check I had
a darn so the run that I had going kind
of worked out but then it got unstable
and and crashed a bunch um did some cool
stuff along the way but we'll talk about
that environment once it's released
darn that's what I have to work on all
day tomorrow
now let's get the
setup okay
also you could enforce periodic boundary
condition to avoid
clustering yeah so that is what I will
do if they don't just learn it on their
own um it's not good for them to just
all go to the edge because they do get
penalized for being near agents that are
of a different color so unless they
learn to like group along the edges in
separate um separate
communities uh it won't work out as
well but yeah we can we can enforce some
sort of condition if it becomes
necessary get to
pull wait this is the wrong one I just
Association into the same
box
man for
let's do grid
continuous uh this is going to be a 1
billion step
run
and
grid let me just make sure we have
everything that we think we
have GD
yes
this is now going to be running a
billion
steps there's some weird compilation
here one sec
there we
go 1 million step per second train
run this is going to sit on my other
monitor until uh until we finish this
now in the
meantime we also had to do Predator prey
didn't
we Let's do let's do that one in the
meantime
whoops grid
continuous just to see if we get
anything out of
that Predator pre one is definitely
going to be harder to
interpret I could potentially be quicker
to
train though to get something
reasonable kind of hard to say
okay net Predator
pre is completed
here and I'm going to do the same thing
as before but I'm not going to mark it
as a baseline so that we save the one
bill run as the Baseline
[Music]
so this is the new run that is going now
this is the uh the one that we have
going for a bill here hold
on okay
so this here
is our uh
our other run which is not taken off
yet interestingly enough and then this
is the run that we just started right
here which has already taken off to get
quite good
reward it seems to have leveled
out for the most part
still going up very
slowly but you get it level out pretty
much
immediately little bit concerned that
the uh the other one
hasn't taken off yet that's kind of
weird isn't
it that the group one didn't take off
yet
definitely should have
um should have taken off by now well
we'll see if there's just something
weird going on with it um I don't want
to kill it until we know it's messed
up we're going to have this one to look
at in a moment
anyways was have three minutes
remaining oh I did 300 mil that's why
now that's
okay
so uh the puffer
[Music]
lib yeah we got to do the the puffer lib
right buffer lib
one um
I can just do that in the meanwhile I
would really like if this other run did
something useful though I'm not sure why
it would suddenly not
work that's
weird
well let's open Photoshop and uh I think
this was
a
720p environment right 720 1080 720 so
we're just going to go put like puffer
lib logo save it as a bit map and then
the environment is going to be for the
agents to fill that
in are you kidding me
Adobe damn it Elon you had to go and
hire yakine so he didn't go and replace
Adobe for
us
um hold on
this is so obnoxious I hate stupid
Adobe why did it open a browser if it
has a local sign in
mode oh my God most obnoxious
thing okay this was all the neural MMO
stuff
oops my
run freaking
this literally doesn't let you resize
the damn window there we
go it whatever um we're going to make a
custom
transparent
great and we're going to just put some
puffer lib stuff on here we're going to
see if the agents can fill it
in um do I want to put
the the puffer fish on here is the
question do I want to put the puffer
fish on
here we'll start with the uh just
putting the logo
Railway perfect puffer
lib
blue okay got puffer lib
Adobe uh this is probably already a lot
of pixels isn't it so what we want is we
want Railway like
thin so it takes up the minimum number
of pixels I think and then we want this
to be way wider
though um
is this font just really bad when you
stretch
it any plans to add a large scale neural
MMO like task to
Ocean give it a few
weeks yeah give it a few weeks I am
working on more complex
environments um
it's not going to all be this simple but
the simple tasks are very important for
calibrating for like calibrating stuff
there will be a lot more complex stuff
enabled by this Tech um I have one
project right now that
is basically done it just needs to be
cleaned up and I need to get the models
to train to be more
impressive and after that um I'll do
some I got to probably take a few days
to do like work on some longer form
content and video stuff around it so
that people actually see it for the
release and then uh I do want to you
know hopefully this month I get to start
like another somewhat larger scale
simulation project that would be really
cool um it's going to depend on a lot of
things though
what's wrong with
Railway why is it so
weird have the oxygen
font nope no
cabin oxygen font more fonts from Adobe
font
that's not what I was looking
for this
one this one's good
right it literally makes to sign in
every time you want a freaking font
they're so protective of their stupid
fonts
where's my freaking I just downloaded it
where is
it oh here it
is
oxygen do they not have a
nonbold
what oxygen regular
I hate Adobe so much the worst freaking
company I
swear why is this company so bad
I literally see it here and it doesn't
show
up whatever we'll leave it bold for now
cuz they're
stupid but bold is going to mess it up
because there too many pixels that are
like
[Music]
H maybe
not and then we'll do like this one will
be
this one will be
blue and then do we put the puffer in
here I don't think they're they're going
to actually outline the
puffer I don't think yeah I don't think
that that's going to happen so I think
that the easiest thing to do is just
going to be to put this centered like
this and we're going to save this for
now upper lib
export
[Music]
as PNG is
fine let go to downloads
just
shoot let's see in the meantime so we
got that done um how did our how did our
graphs
go oh interesting so it did eventually
take
off and it got to
98 so this actually did eventually work
um and this means it's capped on reward
cuz uh the rewards are clipped to one so
this is like it's done as well as it can
do according to the
reward um I don't know why it took
longer to take off but whatever and then
this other one here uh seems like it got
something reasonable too so let's go
look at both of these and then we'll do
the puffer lib task based on
that the puffer lib task is to just fill
in the logo with agents I thought that
would be a fun thing to do
right they just get they just get uh
rewarded for filling in the logo and I
think it's actually going to be kind of
hard to solve it first because we're
going to have to put the reward into the
observation space before they actually
can solve it because otherwise there's
no way for them to tell when they're in
the right spot
[Music]
um
rator so we'll start with the Predator
pray one
[Music]
it eval model path
what I'm very
confused are they trying to get away
from each other or get to each other
they're forming cluster
look you see these guys they're joining
this
cluster so the gray ones all get into
clusters well that's bizarre right
I'm assuming that means that the reward
function is not what I thought it was
because otherwise that's weird this is
also a good time to check if things are
getting
respawned it doesn't look like
anything's getting respawned cuz I don't
see any gray pixels right
wandering there are no gray pixels that
are like falling
back so it looks like we have a
substantial environment bug and then
probably a reward function
[Music]
bug let's look at the other one first
though what was it was it we did the
init group one right that was the long
one that we did
okay
so we'll see what they do but this is
potentially the thing that we were um
talking about where like you know maybe
they just learned to all group up
against the
wall I'm interested to see how they're
clustered um along the wall
so cluster cluster and some of them are
just like
noise but you got a lot of clusters here
so it's kind of my fault in this case
then that they they didn't learn the
optimal
thing
but you do get some nice
clusters so let's make some fixes oh are
they separating more as we were watching
them can't really tell if they're
separate anymore they kind of look like
they're all stuck together
I'll make some small
changes and rerun some
experiments actually I wouldn't be
surprised if
um it makes it easier to learn once we
fix the
respawn for
what does self. spawn do right
now it sets the grid to a pixel valve
you well that's not what we wanted at
all
right I don't even know how this does
anything we'll use the Baseline policy
though because it'll make it really easy
to tell if it's working
so first of
all you do need separate spawn
food you need separate uh spawn food and
spawn agent
it was something like this
right spawn
agent I think it's just RC tile again
right yeah we actually it's it's way
closer in this case than it is for snake
so we just can we didn't need to copy
the other
code okay so and then what we do is
self. grid agent positions
wait what agent positions
of agent
idx so this is Agent idx right
so grid is going to be self. agent
colors of agent
idx right
and we set row and
column and now it's
spawn this one is actually spawn
food then this one is spawn agent of
agent idx right
and then
weon
Place do
that
continuous we'll see if it start
spawning agents or not
oops so the fact that I'm not seeing any
agent spawning
here tells me that this is not actually
happening it's not actually spawning
correctly
am I doing something
wrong ah
you want a random uh
looat this is a random
int float scon
Dand
not the red
safe that's funny luckily I'm not
threading this is idiocy
Rand in no Okay so
I'm going to change the change some
stuff around so that it will be fast
it's going to
be it's going to be int agent
respawn if I'm going to set this to like
a thousand and that means 1 and a th000
what should I name this thing
uh agent respawn chance is the opposite
of what I
want the average life
right expected agent
life I can do expected lifespan is fine
right expected
lifespan and then what I do is
this percent might be kind of
slow we'll
see if yeah so this this is the way that
we want to do
it um let's go to the grid continuous.
Pi
file we'll do
prob so this is
expected
lifespan equals
1,000 we'll
do expected
lifespan see if I did this
correctly and if so we should have
respawn in
agents we're going to have to retime to
see if I made it slow in the
process generally we try to avoid
divisions if we
can okay
so we are spawning new agents it looks
like
but um we forgot to remove the old
agents so we've got some like dead
ones
so what we have to
do is we
do Dot
so we have old R old
C and then we do self do
grid to
empty we clear
delete
agent the old
position and then we add it to the
grid pretty easy
do not
assign right
um we have to um to move the agent
right so we have to
do int
this is
weird um I think I wrote some wrong code
here didn't
I
velocity yeah so this is supposed to
be self. aent speed times velocity
Y and this is supposed to just be
int number of dumb error that one can
make and then did I do the same thing up
here
reset I don't think
so yeah no this should be
fine
so when we spawn the new agent
we're going to have to clean this code
up I'm
sure when we spawn the new agent
here we need to discretize the positions
which is luckily very
simple we just say it's an INT
right and we'll see if this is enough
might already be
fixed we'll see just by um running this
bad
model
okay so we're going to see if any pixels
get
stuck we can see that there are new
agents spawning right I do not see any
stuck
pixels meaning that the agents are
moving correctly they're spawning
correctly and generally this is what we
would like and what we would
expect so now we got we've got to uh
change a few
things we were suspecting that there is
uh something wrong with The Predator
prey function
potentially so I'm going to look at
that um Puffer
and then we're also going to look at a
distance penalty of some
type though I guess if they can't
observe their
position um that might be a little
awkward so maybe we just start with
this so
the
first
ah yeah so this is implemented
wrong hey Joseph sorry to interrupt just
want to ask is there any way I can work
for you business student turned coder
around six months ago and really
enjoying all the RL stuff I'd like to
Deep dive obviously work for free very
little more interest in just learning
from your helping as much as I can so
technically puffer is a company um it is
a like solo Dev non-vc funded company
though it's mostly just me fixing RL
stuff I do um advise and maintain a
couple of different cool open- Source
projects uh it really depends on your
level of interest and experience with
stuff I have done this type of stuff
before with people and the way that
generally starts is just with people
looking at some of the projects that I'm
supporting picking one that appeals to
them and just starting to try to
contribute to it in whatever way uh they
can and then you know of course I'm
happy would buy stuff along the way with
that um yeah that's generally the way
that stuff goes so the projects that I
am publicly working on at the moment are
the uh Pokemon Red project there are a
few people on
that on red
RL this is a fairly mature project this
has been a long for a while this was
originally made by pdubs here um but
then shortly after he released this
awesome YouTube video I started helping
out and I started sponsoring some
compute and Advising and doing some
stuff with this as well um so we we have
a Discord for this there's of course
puffer lib puffer lib is a lot more core
infrastructure and development uh the
things there are a lot harder to do the
infrastructure stuff at the least though
if you just kind of want to get your
hands dirty training uh training a bunch
of models
then yeah there's absolutely a bunch of
like model benchmarking experimentation
and science side stuff over there really
depends what your interested in uh and
the like so yeah that's pretty much what
we are uh what we're up to uh currently
I would say obviously there's more going
on on the uh core infrastructure side of
puffer as well but that is substantially
more uh complicated to get into from the
GetGo I'd say
but what I always tell people that are
like looking to get into this type of
stuff is the way to uh the way to stand
out from 90% of people is to just like
actually pick something and start doing
stuff right like I chat with many people
who are like hey I want to do some stuff
with puffer I want to do his stuff and
then I never hear from them
again so because of that it's mostly
like I advise and give my time to people
who are like contributing stuff to these
open source projects
so I see the error in this Predator prey
function here
um I essentially made something that is
the same as the group the grouping thing
so of course like all of One agent went
that way and all the other agents went
that way so that was actually kind of a
good strategy that they learned based on
that right if there are two types of
agents and you just have all of one type
go to one corner and all of the other
type go to the other Corner that's going
to work out pretty
well um got it thanks very much for
answer I'll try to comp your Pokemon RL
and let you know what we're going yeah
just jump in the Discord we've got a
bunch of contributors a lot of them are
new folks as well uh and also the way
that that that the way that these open
source projects work as well because I
have very limited compute I do share it
quite freely but it's very limited so I
make sure that it goes to people who are
actually using it effectively um we've
got a cluster of eight desktops and like
once people have been contributing for a
bit and are ready to scale up their
stuff and like you know run stuff then
we uh we add them to the the cluster
there for that I think we have four or
five of the machines currently on
Pokemon so that's the main project I'm
supporting at the moment so yeah go
ahead and check that out um bet lean key
that guy and of course the original
pdubs those are the main people that are
doing stuff with it at the moment
oh I see what happened here so we have
yeah so these are
backwards um so prey wants to keep
Predator ins sight this is supposed to
be agent
two and then this is supposed to be
agent
one so that should do something already
maybe we'll
see um
may or may not be enough to keep them
from grouping up along the sides of the
environment we'll
see if I don't have to add a like
centralized or a uh a position based
reward I'd prefer not to add a position
based
reward so we'll just see from here how
this goes
yeah my uh my longer term goal by the
way um for
puffer uh I don't mind too much asking
people to like just do open source for
free for now considering I am also
working for free and I'm I'm currently
working for free full-time um but longer
term My Hope Is that uh once puffer gets
some actual Revenue I'll be able to
sponsor more compute as well as like
some Bounty type things um around the
project uh we're not quite there yet but
uh that is my hope longer term is to be
able to sustain like a really awesome
reinforcement learning lab for people
who are interested in this
stuff continuous let's
do uh
fix Bond and Rewards
which one is this on I think this is the
wrong machine right where did we put the
the various
boxes oh yeah this is the right one I
think uh yeah there's a popper box
[Music]
that's
fine so
we're going to set this to
be you want to set this to the Predator
pray
task let's do
both
predator in it
Predator so we'll do Predator prey on
this machine for 300
mil uh I have to remember to compile
this right
make sure this is compiled
and now we have the other
box
yeah we're going to set up two runs is
what we're going to do
little bit suspicious of the reward on
that run on the
left whenever you see rewards that are
that
low um I mean there's a certain scale
that you're looking for right it's
usually like
something around between like .1 and
like low point something right like 0.1
point2 something like that is
nice generally you want rewards that
scale like zero to one but don't like
not 0.001 because it's not learning
anything from
that
uh where is
this group okay I guess this is already
the way that we want it to be so we will
run a new
Baseline right
here and we will pull up the wand
bees on both of these
runs upper
okay so this one here is
nice seea you have a good one as
well okay so this is this does have some
reward it's just way too
small uh this was
the The Predator prey task right
well actually technically we can't tell
this Predator pray task may be learning
something it might not and the reason
for that is so let me explain a
fundamental annoyance with adversarial
tasks in reinforcement learning when you
have two things that are trying to learn
to beat each other right the reward for
the
Predator is it gets plus one for every
prey it has in sight and the reward for
the uh the prey is it gets negative one
for every predator in sight
so if these two things are equally
balanced the reward should be zero
right um yeah the average reward would
be zero
and if the you know the Predator is
dominating then it would
be something like one or or however many
it can see um yeah
so there's not a good way just by
looking at the reward curve to tell how
well stuff is doing you need something
like ELO or something much more
complicated so really all we can do with
this specific task is run it and see if
it looks
cool which is you know valid at least
for the time being um hopefully we'll
find some better stuff in the future for
that but it's good for now and we can
see that here we have very similar
Dynamics to before where it takes a
while and then it jumps up
the reward jumps
up it's a little odd um how small the
reward is I think it keeps jumping up
right if I recall so we'll wait and see
how well scaled that reward is in a
bit this one's almost done
training again the reward is not
actually zero here right it's like hodge
podge of
values I'm interested to see if there's
anything cool
here already though this has been great
progress you know we've fixed up the
environment it's nice and fast it's
going to be much more
consistent and this is just about done
so
Predator pre
en it'll be a model for us here in a
moment 2289 is this the right
model 2289
CL
reditor we download this
Baseline eval model path Predator I
think we have to set the task as well
right continuous gr
continuous let's see from
here yeah we have the wrong net function
here so this has got to be
Predator net Predator
pre and now we can potentially get
something going from this
okay so here we have Predator
prey oh they're doing something look do
you see these like the Predators chasing
the prey around look they're totally
chasing each other
that's kind of
fun this is really
cool I mean it's not like any large
scale like emergent thing or whatever
but
it's that's kind of cool
right this prayer like Haha I've gotten
away for now
should we reward the uh the prey for
grouping
up I don't know we'll think about
that that pretty cool
though look totally chasing them they're
like hurting it actually if you look at
it they've got them like hted against
the wall
here well that's kind of what I was
hoping is that um if like maybe if we
made the vision range larger right like
and they could see more of them maybe
you'd like get some sort of thing where
they try to herd all the agents together
I don't
know this is cool enough to start with
that's Predator pre I'm satisfied with
that um how's the grouping one going oh
yeah the grouping and is going good it's
uh got another 9 minutes on it left but
uh where is
it where's the
on yeah okay so here's the reward for
this one uh now remember that the we
changed it so they uh they now respawn
the agents respawn so the reward scale
for this task is not going to be the
same as it was
before I think you'd get a larger scale
emergent Dynamics if the prey are
encouraged to group
up so what do you expect to come out of
this right like I think instead of think
the one way I like to look at RL
is the first way I like to look at RL is
what is the optimal Behavior under this
reward function right like if you gave
me this reward function to look at like
what would I design as the best possible
Behavior to optimize that reward like if
the prey just group up then kind of it
just makes it easier for the Predators
unless there's something else involved
um so I guess maybe the interesting
question is
like what would be something that we
could do relatively easily without
adding a bunch of new mechanics that are
annoying to implement what could we do
to make it relatively straightforward
for like large scale herting or flocking
or like something like that to emerge
maybe like the predators try to isolate
prey maybe it's like hey you uh the
Predators want to be near one prey but
not near a bunch of prey or maybe each
Predator wants to have one prey to
itself something like that
um I don't know I think we could play
with the reward functions for this a
little bit and create something really
cool here
we'll have to think about it a little
bit and we don't want to create a really
hacky reward function either right we
want to create something that's like
pretty simple and natural that leads to
something
interesting right now it looks like the
Predators are hurting individual prey
but with grouping I'd expect it to look
like hurting a front of prey into a
large cluster
but then
like that's not because of the Predator
right if you encourage the prey to group
up all you're doing is like encouraging
the prey to make itself an easier
Target like I kind of want a thing where
like the prey is being forced by like
the Predators are have to come up with
some formation or whatever to force them
into that group not just like the prey
go there and it's like shooting fish in
a
barrel you
know
yeah let's do um
this thing's going to take a few more
minutes to train let's maybe implement
the puffer task in the
meanwhile and implement the puffer
task the puffer
task so we do init group
nit
puffer
puffer equal or
m equal
to uh was
it is there an numpy IM load
I want to do I want to do open
CV
pill I hate open CV Let's do let's use
pill for this
actually I can probably just do like
load um puffer li.
PNG
current
files with
Hill Maybe This Is It
reward
puffer uh and it's going to
be n.
agent. S type
in and then
oh
shoot equals m.
buffer I'm going to have to
like I'm going to have to what was
it I'm going to have to put a break
point here and just figure this out
in
it yeah let's let's mess with this a
little
bit not
file for
okay oh that's funny you can't see the
chat very well with that when I put
stuff here let's get rid of
this
oops Yeah
cool
okay m.
puffer oh I made it 1024 by 1024 I
thought I'd made it um
720p so I have to go resave that
image canvas
size okay
this is good
right puffer lib
me
okay that run just finished so I'm going
to do this real quick and then we're
going to check the uh the other
run one bill run
looks pretty good so
far why is it
1073 shouldn't be
1073 agent position
oh it's because I have the wrong args
being passed to this that's yeah that's
fine well this is 720p
right do I like this
size
uh oh no 1024 might be better
this is nice for
scaling I think I'm going to go undo the
thing that I just did uh let's go load
the the Baseline though first
right so we had the init
group Let's
do let's see what this group model
does this was trained for a bil
steps can definitely see
grouping will be interesting to see over
time what they uh they
do we could speed this
up but it'll be fun to just watch for a
little bit
I mean definitely just you can start to
see the little clusters emerging
right to what extent the Clusters have
learned to walk around and such yet you
know that's they don't appear to
be intentionally
moving effectively
yet but
um It's relatively decent to
start we got all these little clusters
right let's see the uh the graph
associated with
this let's see if they think that they
did
well we got our Predator prey and we got
these two
right
so okay so this is an eval run so we
have to do these two right
so that's the Predator prey and then
this one here it's uh doesn't really
seem to have improved very much after
this big jump here is the forging or the
uh the grouping
policy okay so this is a pretty uh
pretty decent clustering thing now I'm
going to what I'm going to do is I'm
going to run this at like a much I'm
going to run this a little bit
differently I'm going to run um
um because we don't have to render every
frame and the Sim itself runs very very
fast
right
so we're going to do every 100 every 100
frames will render one
so obviously this is going to be a
little bit um disorienting because a lot
is happening per frame
here oh no you actually can see the
Clusters are
walking like the Clusters are walking
around here which is kind of cool and I
do see a little bit of accumulation at
the
bottom not all the Clusters are walking
which is funny enough
some of the Clusters are moving
around they do seem to be directionally
biased
down hard to say for
sure pretty cool image
though and definitely see all the little
groups of Agents I mean some of these
are pretty big right these
groups this
one all agents have partial observation
yeah the agents only see a little block
around them they have um 11 by1 Vision
centered on themselves this is a uh this
is a 720p map so 1080 by
um oh yeah so I think you just we just
saw a big white cluster merge over there
so it's a pretty basic task but uh you
know you could get some interesting
stuff and technically if the agents were
really smart right they would like walk
these groups around and merge them with
each other very effectively uh which
they're kind of doing to some extent
though I think that they could get much
better at
it and potentially more vision would
help a lot of things could potentially
help very nice
let's finish the puffer task so this
puffer task is um well I have to edit
this anyways so this is the puffer task
uh it is this image right here and the
goal is for them to fill in the
logo
um it's both a task and an advertisement
in one
okay so this now is uh working
here
and mode eval yeah we got to turn on the
puffer task
I kind of want to run a hyper pram sweep
on one of these
tasks in the
background um should I just do that real
quick let me
just no I'm going to keep these machines
idle we'll do hyper Prem sweeps
later CBA with it
yep so 720 this is
perfect Puffer
index
is well that's
weird they do it
backwards
wait I'm confused here I thought I did
it uh y comma X didn't I
grid is height by
width
uh I'm
confused height minus Vision
range no wait it's suppos supposed to be
fine okay I'm just being dumb
yeah m.
puffer agent
positions
shape yeah so this is what it should be
okay now we have the
colors and
um so the reward is going to be we can
do this Vector right
equals
um it's like
colors there's the simple version that
we could
write I don't like that this just filled
it with 255 255
Z let's just do red equals
colors
colors colors
puffer row
is
zero the thing that's annoying is
I
dot so it has to be not
transparent
times
build
right blue
filed now what we do
is rewards is going to
be m.
Blue
Times M was it m. agent colors
well wait this is because this is image
shape this is so this is blue ah my gosh
so Anno annoying the red is going to be
m.
red blue is going to be m. blue of
this so and then it's going to be like
red
times it m. agent
colors uh
plus it is red white red
agent one and agent
three plus
okay so this is fine so we have one this
is
three this is was it 1 2 3 and this is
four so now we know which agents are red
which agents are blue we know where the
en is red the m is blue we've got it all
cached so now what we can do
is um build red
equals.
red
times agent
Red
Dot as type pool
what does if you do two times true in
Python what does it give
you gives you two okay
good build
Blue rewards
equals it filled red plus filled blue
uh return num.
clip over
10 like
so and I don't even know if we need to
clip
this I think we can just literally
return
this yeah we can literally just return
this and uh this is going to take some
debugging probably
okay this is the most annoying w b bug
of all time literally makes you redo
your container
run without this
on okay so this is
could not be
broadcast now we debug
this I'm hoping this is like relative
relatively quick to compute because it's
all
vectorized i' like to not have to do
this in scon
land agent
red oh so this is not m. red this is red
this is blue right
okay so it says that they're filled in
pixels very nice
I don't think it's actually going to be
possible to train this task initially
though not until we
add reward and maybe position into the
observations I think we're going to have
to change just a little bit to have
that because
otherwise yeah I don't I don't see how
otherwise we're going to be able to do
it could technically added this channel
to the conf but that doesn't really help
us yeah
so what task are you working on right
now I will show you uh we have a dock I
guess well this is we've done way better
than this since I started today that was
from
yesterday we
have there's a forging task where agents
have to eat all the food like this but
better we've got Predator prey where
some agents Chase others this one we
didn't end up implementing we've got a
task where all the agents have to uh
they have to group with other agents of
their same category or type and then the
task that we're doing right now is
simultaneously a task and an
advertisement I wrote I made this little
image here and I want to get all the red
agents to fill out the puffer and all
the blue agents to fill out lib
so we're going to change the network
architecture a little bit for this I
think this does make it a little bit
more complex and annoying though doesn't
it it's not actually going to make it
slower I don't think but it would be
slightly more annoying is there any way
I can cheat this
whatsoever not really
would be nice
but I think we just add the reward into
the observations we just do the work and
um we see if it works with uh
puffer because then they should actually
be able to learn to go you know roughly
towards the
center though it does if they observe
their position does that detract
anything from the
task not
really I think if anything it's going to
make it
cooler
because maybe then they can learn to
group up in the center or
something that'd be kind of cool
let's do
this it does make the example slightly
more complicated for people
but yeah you need reward in the
OBS it's all you can do
um it is slightly annoying that it's a
un8 well I guess I can Buck it
right
yeah okay I know what I'm going to do so
this is going to
be you can do numpy can you do a nump
pi. Zer with
one yeah you can okay so it's going to
be num. Z is num agents
times self. obiz time self.
obiz
plus
3 basic question but the agents use
where the other agents are as well as
where they are in order to determine
their next
action so I'm changing it right now a
little bit but up until now the way that
it has worked uh is that the agents
oops the agents can see a little crop
around themselves it's an 11 by1 that's
centered on the agent and they can see
nearby agents as well as the color of
those agents and mechanistically that
works um um food has uh food is like one
you know empty is zero wall is two you
know uh red agent is three gray agent is
four white agent is five pink agent is
six something like that and then you uh
one hot that data you stick it into a
con con goes to linear to
lstm and that's how they make their
decisions
little network but you know 150k
parameter Tiny Network that does have
memory and stuff like that so pretty
decent so I'm going to have to make a
compute OBS function here aren't
I yeah because this right now this buff.
observations just gets filled in
so so OBS
view buff
observations uh
St um
agents gotcha so the direction is of
each agent object also given to the
neural network everything flattened into
one vector so that's what we're adding
now is we're adding the ability for
agents to observe um other stuff uh like
their position the reward that they get
and there will be a velocity Vector
maybe an acceleration thing we're going
to see about that in a little bit I
think acceleration would be cool to add
we can very easily do
it we will just have to cap their speed
I think because yeah we have to cap
their
speeds because we can't have them flying
through the barrier at the edge of the
map but yeah we're going to we're going
to spend a little bit more time on this
uh this project here you know this is
not going to be this will be done way
well before the end of next week unless
I I don't know crash and burn or
something
um but the hope is that we end up with a
handful of nice little environments here
continuous and
discreet yeah cap speeds is is perfectly
fine the thing is just like you don't
want agents to you don't want agents to
go across to the edge of the map um
because it just it makes Computing
observations way more annoying like if
they get to the edge of the map then you
have to fill in the portion of the
observations for which there is no map
data which is pretty easy to do but like
you can't just slice and doing the
slices more computationally efficient so
you can lose a lot doing that and you
know I I kind of like having these
environments running at millions and
millions of steps per second so I just
avoid stuff like
that keeps the code cleaner as
well okay so this is the OBS
view is there a numpy reshape no copy
well we're going to hope that it doesn't
cop that it doesn't make a
copy
okay OBS
view so we pass in OBS View
and then what we do
is we
def
Bill
observations buff. observations
of
minus three
agent
positions divide by self.
height so this is going to give us uh 0
to
One agent
positions and it's got to
be it's obnoxious because um we actually
have to scale this to be a u into 8 it's
actually going to be 255
times uh times
this as type nump into
eight right and then 9 -2 we do over
with and then this is going to be 255
time uh self. buff.
rewardsrewards as type
nump
so what we've done is we've rescaled
we've essentially discretized this is a
neat trick so puffer technically
supports mixed data
types um but because we're doing and
that's what I would recommend for most
people doing RL but because I'm building
ultra high curve stuff uh and I'm using
an advanced API here uh we're going to
keep everything in u so it's very data
efficient to transfer and we don't have
to do like a bunch of data munging
around so um I am just like turning the
data the integer data or the float data
into a u 8 multiplying by 255 so it's
scaled between 0 0 and 255 and then I'm
going to undo on the other side so you
essentially get like it's a float but
the float only has 255 possible values
kind of
cool uh and we'll call uh fill
observations here and
in
here which so now what we need to do is
we need to add a
plus uh
or yeah 32 plus what we're going to do
is
self. um
features.
linear 3
two
okay so
observations so this is now going to be
CNN features equals self.
observations
of minus 3
observations is equal
to
so
fees three.
long. float okay and then uh flat
features self.
features it's three star
and it's a little awkward
because yeah we kind of want to put this
here r
two okay so we have the CNN
features we got the flat features right
and then what we do
is CNN
flat quential and let's add the
relu onto this
right or alternatively we can flatten
here yeah let's
do take the re
off
well yeah let's take the re off right we
do features is going to be
cat and
then features
equals
re
features and
then return
P features
so let's see if this makes sense we
embed the Comm features do
CNN do flat features
oops we now Con
cat CR
and there's a re at the end of this
isn't
there yeah there's a re at the end of
this so This is actually f.
f.r of f. Rel
features then we return features
none now of course we're going to have
to I'm going have to do some stuff for
this cannot broadcast
de okay so I did not uh update this
correctly I
guess so the buffer here
is I guess I didn't update the
observation space would that be what I
did yeah so this is self. OBS
sized
times plus
three just hacking some stuff
hacking
int not
itable oh it the
shape need a comma here
not
reshape
uh self. buff.
observations grid
[Music]
continuous OBS View
star reshape
one that's odd right
o that's not what I wanted at
all uh so something got messed up
there oh wait no that's fine isn't it
yeah so num
agents OB siiz typ OB
size because you don't need the numb
agents right so this is
everything then this is going to be
self. num agents
comma self yeah so this
is like this
takes some
work definitely takes some
work and I did this the opposite way it
needs to
be indexing on rows
here and we're still not where we want
to
be cannot broadcast input
array uh this
is one
Z
One whatever we'll clean this up after
we just we need to get it to work
first
permute number of input dims okay
so right so this is going to be CNN
features
view uh this is going to
be1
11 and then what we do is we do CNN
features
and we can even do
long
features
long okay so that's
good uh and then these features here
it's going to be self. features so flat
features it's going to be
observations just the last three
elements it's going to be like this
255 or no it's observation divide by
25.0 no observations what it dot float
over
255 and then we do flat
features
flat and we'll see how that goes
that actually runs very
nice are we on the puffer task we are on
the puffer task does it do anything if I
just do like this train
it's noticeably a little slower than we
would
like well we will see whether or not
this uh this trains
anything it does appear that there is
some increase here yeah so this is
actually training something cool uh cuz
you can see
position and reward that you're getting
and if you can see the reward that
you're getting you should be able to see
you're getting reward when you stand on
the puffer
towel G continuous
TCH commit oh we also have to add the
puffer task or the puffer lib
PNG puffer lib
task boom
SK origin
Dev
stash yeah so hopefully this will work
um looks like we have it set up
correctly let's recompile the scon on
the bigger
server this task might be a little
slower want to do some optimization I
also modified the network a little
bit well we're going to see if uh well
we're going to see how this
does yeah so I'm going to let this run
this is going to take like I don't know
a few minutes um so I'm going to go and
as soon as this is running for sure I'm
going to go make a shake real quick and
I'll be back by the time this thing is
done be right back I'll I'll leave the
the wand B up actually as well so you
can watch the wand B in the
meantime
here there there's the one B be right
back
e
e e
okay let's see how this run did
interesting
um so only
uh only like a percent and a half of
them are actually covering the the
puffer
logo well we'll see what it does let's
see what the uh the policy looks like
cuz you never really know until you
watch the
policy big mistake actually of a lot of
research is not having a setup to watch
your
policies know people will just like work
off the loss curves
forever but you don't know what's going
on until you see
it never know what's going on until you
see the
thing puffer
PT how are we doing on X as well this is
kind of a chill stream so probably
nothing crazy did I miss something oh
jeez please tell me I didn't forget to
meeting uh did I create a
meeting doesn't look like it
wait
what are there groups did somebody add
me to
like oh I didn't realize that had group
chats uh
continuous hold on one
sec uh
what am
I
okay cool yeah nothing crazy uh I was
just looking for the views on the the
thing okay 391 or
whatever
cool uh let me find the policy again
of course we're not running them in
continuous mode yet but they are
continuous control
Ms we're doing sanity checks
first
oops so we're not expecting much out of
this
uh well first of all this is
too it's too choppy for me to see
anything oh wait I see the P here don't
you I I definitely see the P right here
this is the P for the puffer and this is
the U
right I'm starting to see like the
Bottom's the
F so it's not very
good um but it did start to learn
something so now let's see what's
they're actually doing let's see if
they're going towards the
center because maybe we can uh you know
maybe we can optimize some stuff
here roll outs
I want to just see if they're if they've
learned to go to the center then that's
like reasonable um it's possible that
they're just not living long enough to
fill in the the puffer uh it's also
possible of course that they're just not
getting reward
but okay so they're not learning to go
to the center right these guys are
locked
in but these other guys here have not
learned to go to the center
it's possible that we're not encoding
their positions
correctly one
second
jeez okay you can actually you can see
that the agents that are on the puffer
logo are locked right you can see that
the ones that are like on where the text
is are locked but the other ones have
not learned to go to the center so let's
figure out why that
is I went out to dinner yesterday I'm
sincerely hoping I haven't gotten sick
from that that would be
catastrophic there's way too much work
to be done to get
sick but probably I'm just weing out
from uh from all the
running for
those flat features actually look good
don't
they perfectly Z like zero to one
scaled why wouldn't they learn to go to
the center is my question
right it could just take them
longer they're also really not getting
very much reward
right the question is do I want to add a
go to the center reward or do I want
that to be part of the
challenge
um oops let me see
so which of these tasks would benefit
from go to the center right
uh oh are we uh dropping frames
here no okay we're
good I guess we should probably decide
on the Predator pray reward and then use
that to inform the other stuff because
like maybe that needs a center thing as
well
um so the forging task was relatively
reasonable on its
own very basic task but it's pretty
configurable because we can decide you
know how much food there should be
um stuff like that uh it should be a
pretty consistent task as well I think
it's
um probably the easiest one should be
very quick to
learn it
is kind of not really either adversarial
or cooperative um I guess it's
technically adversarial but not really
because the agents can't really
interfere with each other very much
anyways there's the group up task which
is purely
cooperative and we have reasonable
policies for it
already um they don't seem like they
learn anything like dumb directional
biases they seem pretty reasonable just
like maybe either the agents need to
respa less
often
[Music]
or or something like that
maybe yeah one like respawning an agent
every thousand ticks on average is
probably not enough for them all to
accumulate into like their specific
groups though I guess technically we
just added the position rewards so they
could like learn to agree on a position
or something like
that that might be
interesting might be not interesting as
well we don't really
know um observing Global position is
also kind
of
questionable with the stuff that it
allows you to
learn it's definitely needed for the
poer LI task because you need to be able
to know to go to the center right and
it's very difficult to learn that
otherwise um I definitely want to see
more of like a emergent flocking type
thing
come out of one of these environments
right and it's not that hard to get
flocking type things when you start all
the agents together we've kind of
already seen that um like there these
demos which I used to think were really
impressive where the where are the
graphics
D where are the graphics okay this is
not the graphics what the
hell there used to be a nice gift of
this I don't not know what happened to
itl
environment okay so this one
here wait are you kidding me they got
the uh M agent on this
yeah so this type of a thing looks very
impressive um but when you start all the
agents like on other sides it's not that
hard to
learn also it's funny cuz this is not
million a million agent experiment this
is like a few hundred agents this is
actually smaller scale than the thing
that we're currently doing right now um
I think what they did is they quoted
like their biggest settings um
but then like they don't actually use
those for most things cuz it's not
really
practical I'd like to get some sort of
flocking type
Behavior like some setting
yeah there a lot of cool stuff on that
that actually is a kind of a cool
article page oh it's funny if I look at
MH and RL environment there's actually a
the neural MMO this is a neural MMO
slide on here on the first page that's
fun
oh puffer lib is here as
well that's
fun
uh hold on
DMs I think this is just a group chat
but let me
see yeah there's nothing
there okay
so locking behaviors right
how do I want to change I think the
Predator prey one would be the best for
that
right unless there's something else I
could think of I mean the grouping
behavior is kind of like that
right it's really hard to come up with a
reward function that would incentivize
this though um
like you're not going to
get one cool thing would be like is if
the different groups of Agents kind of
like arranged in a line and then swept
across the map to collect all the other
agents of their same species but that's
not going to happen because you're
incentivizing the individual agents to
stay close to as many other agents as
possible Right
I mean what other stuff can we do so
like the Predator
prey Predator wants to be near prey
predat prey wants to not be near
Predator
right that's going to produce lots of
disjointed little prey that are running
away from the
Predator because they run at the same
speeds nothing was really going to
happen um I could have different speeds
per
population that would be not that hard
to
implement and if the prey run faster
then maybe you know the Predators have
to get
creative but then also maybe it just
makes it impossible because they just
run in the opposite direction and the
map is really big right so that might
just be out
H well technically the Predators are
getting rewarded for hurting prey right
now because they get rewarded based on
the number of prey that are
around so they are incentivized to work
together to like corral many prey
together in the same area the vision
radius is just kind of
small I
suppose but maybe it's already enough to
get get something cool out of it I don't
quite
know the reward curves are also just
not particularly
um particularly easy to follow with
something like that because it's purely
adversarial well not purely but it's
mostly
adversarial the agent spelling out
puffer lib
I'm actually kind of surprised that they
don't
learn to go towards the
center what did the reward curve look
like for
that this was the reward curve
right pretty
sporadic it's possible that I just need
to run it for
longer but that doesn't seem
right I mean most of the data is kind of
getting wasted
because like there only a few agents
near the center so yeah they'll learn to
like oh if I'm getting reward I should
stop here so I keep getting the reward
reward but it's kind of hard for the
agents to learn to go towards that thing
because like there are only a few agents
that are around the puffer logo in the
first place
and just learning that I need to take a
couple steps there doesn't necessarily
translate to all of
them hey linky we've done a lot of stuff
already um we are trying to get better
policies they're way better than when we
started uh
currently I'm trying to get agents to
fill out a puffer lib
logo that sounds
fun I could just make the puffer lib
logo much larger or spread it out a
bunch so that more agents can see
it but then of course they won't fill in
the logo as cleanly
really they should just be able to
like the demo I want to see I want to
see them learn to like just filter
towards the center and fill out the logo
nicely that would be
cool and biasing them towards the center
is a cheat I don't want to do that
that's definitely a cheat
why is it they don't that they don't
just learn
that really that
hard watch a VOD when the stream ends
does it make sense to add a Wandering
reward until they see an
objective Define wandering reward that's
kind of hard to come up with what that
should look like
well the point of these types of ends it
needs to be kind of emergent what
happens here
M I could kind of just go run some
sweeps on this if I wanted to to see if
it's just a hyper pram
thing but this task seems actually kind
of hard
right because if you have like 1% of
your agents that are near puffer 99% of
your training date is
worthless until you get to the point
that you learn to move towards the
center
I don't have a good answer to this am I
actually
don't other than maybe hyper prams and
training it for
longer I think it's just a hard problem
which is funny because I thought this
would be the easiest one but now in
retrospect of course it isn't it's
actually pretty hard unless you add a
unless you're willing to hack a
reward you know why don't I just hack
one for now real quick um just to see if
it actually makes a
difference and if it makes a difference
then uh we'll see if they can learn it
on their own right let's just do that
real quick real quick little little
hacking just a little bit of hacking you
know not not very much hacking just just
a little bit of
hacking
um wa takes less agents multi-agent
field army battles Total War seems
easy if you have a way to represent it
in this then maybe um I didn't do I
didn't add combat to this technically I
could add like an attack action or
whatever
um yeah I technically could it wouldn't
be hard um but like what what do you add
to make it interesting right I mean we
got to be careful with the scope creep
on this like the goal of this project
here was to have a few little
interesting environments
a varying
complexity um for quickly evaluating
some learning algorithms like learning
some cool stuff learning some cool
multi-agent stuff and then especially
for evaluating continuous versus discret
learning that was the objective here and
of course it's just multi-agent because
I don't actually think multi-agent is
harder than single agent if depending
how you set it up I know how to do all
of this and puffer lib does it very well
um yeah
plus you get cooler stuff out of
it let's start
here reward puffer is going to
be we got agent position
right we do agent this
positions equals m. agent
positions by m
do8 minus
0.5
this C is equal
to know y gives me
percent divide by width
and then the dist from zero is going to
be that square
root so we do
reward equals
this
plus minus
rather minus 0.0
01 times distance
maybe let's see if this runs and if so
we will Tran this
one uh what happened
here well whatever something I think it
worked I think we just had to remove a
break point
okay
let's see if it this does any
better I mess
up1 time
distance np. Square
wait num pi. square root wait
R oh this is p in
zero p in
one n Pi square
root R S Plus yeah this is good
okay so this should actually learn way
better we will
see uh if that is the
case here's our continuous
run it's going to start off lower
because we're
subtracting reward from the uh the sides
but it should be more
stable of course until we run it we're
not going to see if the reward is just
going up because they're learning to go
to the center or because they're also
filling in the puffer logo
very interesting if it's going to go
back down if it's not actually stable
that would be very odd
very surprised if it's going to just be
stuck
here hard to say I
suppose it does seem like it's
improving maybe just not super
stable anything here of course not
stupid
Twitter reminder to folks watching here
if uh you want to help me out all this
stuff is open source all I ask is that
you give it a star on GitHub helps me
out a whole ton trying to get this
repository more widely known and widely
used helps me get faster feedback helps
me Dev
faster feed the puffer star
so it looks like this reward is actually
um pretty well
stuck I don't know if that means that
it's actually like learned the task
pretty well and uh that the reward is
just way lower than before because we're
subtracting for a distance or if
potentially the uh the policy just is
not very good
it's also possible that it spikes up and
eventually like gets
something it's also not
uncommon and I think after this though
we will have
uh with this we should pretty much have
the basis of this
whole environment
Suite I'm going to have to wake myself
up a little bit and then we are going to
uh see if we can polish this up and
start running some hyper pram sweeps
start doing maybe continuous
integration um environment is continuous
but like maybe we can do variable speed
we'll integrate it with the policy we'll
do a few other things and we'll go from
there does each agent have their own
policy is there a centralized policy for
each agent group
um neither of those things are exactly
true uh the way that it works is that
we're training one neural network we're
training one set of Weights but the
network independently controls each
agent so it's not exactly like they're
not being jointly controlled it's not
like you're playing Starcraft and you're
controlling all the units it's all the
it's like all the units have the same AI
script but it's independently
controlling each agent
reason for this being that if you have
multiple policies you can do that it's a
little bit more infrastructure but you
can train that it's just that um you're
splitting your data among multiple
different uh policies right multiple
different policies so if you're training
like eight agents
eight different policies then you're
getting 1 eigh of the data each it's
going to be way slower in most cases to
train that way
policy is doing CNN forward pass it's
CNN MLP lstm heads yeah that's how it
works so it's a decent little Network
it's a very small Network only like
150,000 parameters but it's got memory
it's got a little CNN it's got
everything you need it's just that the
hidden Dem is the hidden dim is one 128
so it can run
fast
andall okay
let's see what this policy
does they still not going to the
center that's really weird
right they should very clearly be going
to the
center did I mess something
up cuz this was the reward from last
time but it should be strictly
um hold
on did I do it
wrong I might have I might have grabbed
the wrong model
right
continuous this is the reward
overview
model files
I didn't think I grabbed the wrong model
but I might
have be very weird I mean I guess it's
possible I didn't give it enough reward
based on the distance but should still
learn something
okay well if this is not working then
we're going to have to make a debug
tasks we're going to have to make a a
debug task I think here
SE ter
okay so we're now we're going to do
we're going to do init
Center word
Center Center debug
task if they can't tell that they if
they can't uh read their position cords
then they won't be able to solve this
task
right oops not
this negative of
reward goes right up when I do it that
way possible I just had to increase the
reward scale but let's see what the
policy looks like for this
make sure that
the policy we get out of this is
reasonable and then what time is it
3 yeah so I'll have plenty of time to
clean up this whole project as long as
we don't get too sidetracked doing too
many experiments and then we'll be able
to put this into just the mode where we
start running
sweeps and uh this will soon be able to
just be added to the rest of the project
it'll be
nice continuous few more small
things but mostly this will be uh we'll
be able to wrap it up and hopefully have
some cool demos and stuff too
it's looking like the policy is
optimal maybe
not let it
finish
um other
things we need to update the
policy uh itself to have support for
continuous actions it's not too much
work
need
to clean up some code in the uh the
environment file
itself maybe come up with a better way
to specify have users specifying uh
their own tasks or whatever we'll see if
we want to do
that
and aside from
that I think it's pretty well pretty
well set a few annoying hardcoded things
here and there that are a little bit
slow but then we'll be able to just have
this thing run we'll do some
hyperparameter
sweeps probably we'll run carbs against
this actually there not a good reason
not to do uh
carbs we can uh oh we need to do a
little bit of work to normalize the
reward functions as well ideally the
rewards should be either between
negative 1 and one or between zero and
one uniformly
that way that we know that the best
score you can get is one and the worst
score you can get is negative one or or
zero whatever that's very convenient for
uh interpretability and
Analysis if you don't know the max
reward you don't know how well the agent
thinks it's doing relative to what you
expect it to be doing that can be a
common
gotcha all these like just basic
research environment hygiene things need
to be done
properly and uh then we should have like
nice little test suite for for all the
stuff that we want to do
the reward suddenly getting
better don't think so I think we just
let it run for the last 30 seconds and
um we'll be good
it's actually a fair bit of optimization
we could do on the um probably like the
logging and data transfer side because I
see we're leaking 24% compute in just
miscellaneous which most of which is
probably data transer
most of which is data
transfer okay
so we'll see now whether this was a
reasonable uh a useful experiment to
run e
okay so this is what we want right are
they all going to the
center they don't appear to be going
there as fast as they could be
right is it just me or is it
like they're like jittery aren't they
well if you think about
it reward for going to the center is
going to be more effective than
this dense continuous rewards like this
are not that good that
great but they did learn it just not
super efficiently
or
something I don't think it's too much
entropy I think what's happening is that
like the reward here versus the reward
one pixel over the difference is very
small technically what you would want to
do is you'd want to give it like a
reward of 0.01 for moving towards the
center and negative 01 for moving away
for the center instead of giving it like
a reward equal to the negative like a
scaled negative distance from the center
that would be much more
effective because essentially all this
is done is like slowly bias the action
distribution in the right direction
yeah definitely that would be
it so you do want to discretize when
ever you can like that you want to
discretize the reward function whenever
you can because they are moving in the
right direction but they're sort of
Meandering in the right
direction still you get the desired
effect I'm going to uh set it and forget
it with the uh the puff ER Li one right
here I'm just going to set
it uh the puffer lib reward a little bit
different I'm going to see if it does
anything and then I'm going to start
thinking about the uh the rest of the
EnV not going to wait for it to run just
going to let it you know do its thing in
the background
something is wrong with me today I feel
like I've just been freaking beaten over
the head with a bat or something I was
tired luckily this is not uh too
difficult and uh we're making still
consistent progress I'm going to keep
going on this thing for know good few
hours until I got to get dinner and then
just get to bed super early tonight cuz
Saturday is usually the day that I try
to get a really good long day Dev
session solo Dev session in and uh I've
got some stuff to work on there for
sure that the puffer task as
default e
okay we've got this running looks
reasonable oh oh yeah so that'll keep
running um
meantime how long is this F this is 410
lines it's way too much for something
this
simple I guess we have the Raab render
in here as well that we haven't been
using huh
yeah okay well we don't need this um gen
spawn positions we're not using
this that's a little bit of code
gone
renderer we only need one renderer
right yeah we're not using grid
renderer not using make renderer
it's the rayb
one cool so we'll update this in a
bit are oh we are we were using the make
render
what I guess we I guess we were using
this
okay whatever I didn't think we
were you should probably add the uh The
Continuous additions to the uh the
network that would be a good thing to do
is
discreet we're just going to grab the
whole
um the whole network structure here
continuous
yes we don't need is multi-
discreete and then a linear six
so if it's
continuous like
this and then in the
encode right we
do or decode rather
this is the is continuous
version
else flat
hidden flat
okay so now we should have a
reasonable Network that can handle
discrete and continuous versions of the
same
environment that's set
this does not look particularly
encouraging I'm assuming that this is
just not working and I'm going to ignore
that for
now uh let's
see mod
train
runs and if I do
if I edit the
[Music]
environment we can do discretize
false I'm going run the same
thing we're going to have to make a few
edits
apparently few edits
it's going to be the value function is
calculated right
here okay so now we do have the full
ability to run discreet and
continuous let's fix the N
file uh so
that well so that we don't have to keep
changing stuff
grid
continuous so width height n agent
Horizon uh
disc is
true okay
and good
reward let we do task
task equals
puffer and then we
do task equals
puffer we do init function is init
puffer continuous. nit Puffer
puffer Predator prey group Center what
else do we
have buffer
Center
foraging yeah foraging is the other one
so Fred forging Predator
prey
group
oops buffer Center
okay
very
nice so now we have a nice make function
for
this we can do like D- m. task from the
command line and D- discretise and that
should work so we can do like
yep so now we can specify task is very
nice and if we give it an invalid task
like
forg task noton foraging Predator pray
group hoer
Center perfect that is what we wanted
and did this do anything no not really
that's okay
oh this is just random robotics group
chat
whatever okay so what next um we
have this environment
bound it supports discreet and
continuous we need to run some
weeps might not be a bad idea to start
one of those
now just while we have the uh we have
everything in like a reasonable
State uh we're going to pick one that we
can I think the group one is going to be
the best one to use for this yeah so
let's do the group task
uh and let's actually set the default to
something that I want it to be as
well group this is
good continuous
let's do
update
uh continuous policy task
specs nice
let's make sure that this actually works
right and
train is it stuck
shouldn't be able to be stuck that would
be
weird
really okay we'll wait for it for a
second we're going
to I'm going to go over the uh the way
that I set up a sweep I'm going to set
up a sweep I'm going to launch a sweep
then I'm going to just start refactoring
the environment adding a few nice things
testing all that locally while the sweep
runs hopefully that gives us some
reasonable hyper parameters and uh that
will be pretty much all we need to do
today is uh to get this environment all
set and this is in the dev Branch so
after that if I have time I'm probably
going to just start fixing other crap
around the dev branch that needs to be
uh that needs to be fixed before I can
merge this because in the not too far
off future um we're probably going to
release all this stuff as like you know
Q Plus uh the simulator update where we
add a bunch of these cool simulators to
puffer is
1.1 that's a pretty sweet update like
puffer 1.1 the ultra high performance
simulator
update okay
so this thing is running at 2,000 SPS
meaning something has gone absolutely
horribly
wrong
um what did I send this GD
continuous
huh
what is it just Dash D VEC multi
processing that's
needed that shouldn't really make a big
difference
okay something is incredibly incredibly
broken let's see if
it's let's see if it's broken locally as
well e
definitely broken
so the only thing that's different
discretized here is false right which is
weird because I thought I'd set it to
True discretize set to
true yeah okay so for some reason the
continuous version is very very slow I'd
attribute that probably to the policy
right something's wrong with the way I
implemented the
policy we'll try with this
this should be fast
again and then we'll take a look at uh
the way that this
decode is
implemented no still
slow definitely something wrong
wrong I mean that's
ridiculous I don't know how the hell uh
it just got a 100 times
slower let's figure that out
disc critize is now true but I mean it
must have been something with the model
right must be something with the stupid
model something like decode or whatever
right
breakpoint let's
see see what's wrong with
this not
continuous uh that actually looks very
reasonable action
shape action yeah that's
fine the heck just
happened I mean I can let it run and see
if it's alting in the environment or in
the policy that would probably be useful
right
oh I also might have switched uh hold
on if I switched to the some functions
around nit function reward function now
I
have AIT group reward group yeah the the
functions are passed correctly it looks
to me and the function reward
function
for e
okay so 95 in the end it's not the
policy something got screwed up when I
um yeah something got screwed up here
so I'm imagining that it somehow swapped
the functions or something dumb right
let's
check 95% in the
environment those look like reasonable
functions right did I mess with these
[Music]
somehow nit group orward group no these
are fine
right um
lifespan disti is
true engent
speed what the
hell I'm
bizarre I'm sure this is something
incredibly stupid but don't know what it
is
what else did I
change I change anything else dumb and
forget about
it I didn't think I
did group reward
group
uh we can change it to puffer to see if
it's the
task don't think it's the
task oh it is the test that's
weird so I must have screwed up the
group function right
see which of these is slow
this is apparently
slow
yep shape this is
why yeah this is
why it's because I changed the the okay
we need to do a few things here then
um this should be self. OBS
view we'll do self. OBS
view this is going to
be OBS
view agent or m. OBS
View and these don't use the OBS buffer
right
reward Predator prey does so this is
self uh this is OBS
view this is m. OBS
View and it's the same thing here
let's see how that
goes yeah there we go that's fast
again grid continuous
environment the task puffer or group
that's fine
group fix
shape okay so that's
fixed
hopefully let me make sure it trains and
then we can talk about the
sweep okay that trains a million steps
per second and the rewards here seems to
be going
up now we get to talk about
sweeps this will be kind of cool to see
I think everybody's seen these
before
so I have the config for snake right
here as an
example you can see there a variety of
hyper parameters
these very specific values are tuned
results results that have been obtained
from the sweep and that I now Ed as
defaults The Sweep itself is defined
right
here you can see it has sweep
method the metric to optimize and then a
whole bunch of
parameters the way that this works is
that whatever is put here is going to be
sampled so the learning rate is going to
be between 1 eus 5 and 1 eus one and we
are going to just sample between these
based on the current
algorithm
now I think to start we're probably just
going to do a very basic
sweep on this just something to get this
going um so we're not going to touch the
network architect we're not going to
touch anything else let's see what we
can use as a a sweep
here probably I should use the snake
environment as
um a basis for this at the very least
because it does have some nice defaults
so I'm going to copy all of it but I'm
not going to use all of
it I
also you know I'm tempted to use the
carbs algorithm for this
but I haven't fully tested everything
with it just yet so I want to get a base
a basic you know very little can go
wrong Sweep with this first
so we've got
B we're going to maximize environment SL
reward since that's the cleanest thing
to maximize in this case we're not going
to mess with end parameters or policy
parameters we're going to mess with
train we're going to
do learning rate gamma Lambda these are
all
reasonable update
Epoch I don't really want to mess with
that we'll keep it at one these are sort
of uh these prams don't matter as much
so we will get rid of these we'll keep
entropy coefficient that one matters a
lot uh batch size is going to go what
are we using right
now yeah so we'll do
from I don't even see any reason to do
as low as
32k but
uh we're going to do 64,000 65k
to 262k is fine
because even this is kind of
small
Max
five this it 52 yeah we'll go even
bigger on this
Max and mini batch size will be from
here to 32k is
good and then the
Horizon and leave the Horizon well
enough alone
so very basic
sweep 16 set this to
16 very very basic
sweep yeah this looks fine to
me okay so we're going to set this up in
teamu it'll run in the background
grid
continuous specify mode
sweep I specify my v as
multiprocessing and then I do
track
yeah should be
fine and we see whether it runs or not
I think I had this set for 300 million
steps I don't
remember Train's missing okay so there's
apparently I hadn't fully updated some
stuff
since I last messed with
this apparently there's some things that
I needed to mess with
here not the carb
sweep I do
train and this takes make
policy
class make n policy class n
module you need just uh to add policy
class and RNN class to this
right so we do policy class RN
class
um and then when we call
sweep the bottom
here policy class r n
class see if this
runs nope does not work clean puff RL
zeros got
float string okay so there's some
garbage going on here
um there's this annoying thing with W
that I like to work
around
oops Got a
t-x annoying thing with wanb that I like
to hack around is to just call Main
here I don't remember if this works as
is or if I have to change a couple
things
but
demo
continuous right so there's you can't
just do this directly there
is it you can't do uh I think you have
to do like this or
something okay so this runs but the
other one doesn't let's see what the
heck happens
thanks W be for the error message very
helpful okay so what's one be doing
right what I want to
know let me get the full error
so here's the error message
it's
bizarre got
float
int
oh Lomi is doing weird things with in I
mean with that types okay that's fine
did I have something for this
before yeah I did um I have to edit the
config for this this is another no like
obnoxious sweep things sweep
things continuous so instead of uh this
was a carbs thing like I had this set up
this way because of carbs um so what
we're going to do is it values
the heck is it I know that there's a
sweep that has example code for
this I should just be able to find it
and use
it I have one in here
somewhere yeah right here so just you
can just specify values like
this and we were going to do that for
the batch size which is going to
be
perfect don't even need this and then
we're going to do values it's going to
be like
this and that's all we
need
attach
boom fairly likely this will
work boom we're now training a million
steps per
second and hopefully this will be
reasonable 5 minutes per experiment is
perfectly
acceptable 300 mil per experiment
perfect um let's just commit up these
changes since we fix some
stuff we
fixes okay so now we have a sweep
running and uh if we look at wand
B it will be
in
oops it'll be
here so we're going to get all sorts of
graphs in
here once this
runs stupid
thing is there a way to inspect the
model
file is there a way to inspect the model
file or is it just easier to pdv the
policy and check the
data as it
passes I'm looking to sanity check a
trained
model their way to inspect the model
file I mean I don't know what you're
trying to sanity check for right what is
it that you would be trying to check on
a
policy that doesn't involve running data
through it right because if you're going
to run data through it and you're
looking for specific points at which you
might get something unexpected then yeah
you're just going to be using break
points unless you have some specific
thing to
do oh my
gosh I got almost nine hours of sleep I
have no idea I'm just like
exhausted um
I guess I am at 35ish miles for the week
so
far not including the long
run but jeez
still okay
um more to compare two model files from
the same
run where an earlier saved one performs
better in
evil two model fils from the
same I don't know what you expect to be
able to
compare the only difference between
those two is going to be the weights
right so like yeah technically you could
like load up those models and then start
plotting histograms over weights and
stuff to see how the weights have
changed um
but you're probably going to be better
served by looking
at like by having good logged metrics in
wand B and looking for like spikes or
crashes in specific key metrics as
points of instability something like
that is probably going to serve you way
better very rarely are you going to be
looking at you know looking at the
weights directly and trying to
understand something just based on the
weights um they're very select
circumstances in which which that is the
right thing to be
doing so I guess the last thing I need
to really do is just clean this thing up
right unless I'm missing anything
else I'm going to uh hold
on I'll put this sweep thing up
um I'm going to go use the rest from
real quick I'm going to be right back
see if I can wake myself up a little bit
and uh then I'm going to do this for
another two or three hours I
think I'm just going to try to clean all
this
up get the project into a good
State
and generally I don't try to like full
release stuff when I'm
uh not sharp enough to like catch every
little tiny thing but I'm just going to
polish it a little bit get it into like
a mostly releasable State and
um well obviously we've got to run
experiments on it right this is the
remaining thing on the project but um
the experiment should be pretty easy and
automatic to run I would say because I'm
pretty much just going to have to run a
bunch of sweeps I'll talk about what I'm
going to do when I get back see you in a
minute
e
e e
I realized based on exercise performance
today that I'm actually probably fine
and I'm probably just straight up tired
from exercise I'm probably like not sick
or anything weird I don't know was one
of those days um
so we're still going to get some stuff
done today
um So the plan for this project right
I'm going to clean this up see how the
sweep goes we're going to set better
default hyper prams and then there's
going to be there are two things that
are annoying to do like well not really
there's one thing that's annoying to do
and one thing that's easy to do um The
Annoying Thing is we're probably going
to have to fiddle around with the reward
functions a little bit more just to get
like something a bit more reasonable
that's the annoying bit of it and then
the easier part
is just running a reasonable scale hyper
parameter sweep on each of these
environments for both continuous and
discreet so four environments four real
environments at least that we're going
to keep
um we'll probably
do I don't know we'll do a bunch of
hyper pram sweeps what is it
like we could run five mil five well let
me the 100x 500 mil steps
each I'll think about what I'm going to
run it's I said we're going to do at
least 100 billion steps worth of
experiments on the uh the environment
and that seems like a reasonable
starting point 100 billion steps worth
of experiments for hyperparameter tuning
um because that is
only that's a little more than a day's
worth of experiments so that's very easy
to queue up and just get the results of
and not too disastrous if we have to
rerun stuff a couple of times
so yeah that sounds like a good starting
point how are our experiments going
here
H okay so this sweep seems to be
proceeding
um interesting you know patterns
here I'm sure that we'll see
uh we'll see afterwards would make sense
here yeah this is just a really stupid
gamma
value you both have really stupid gamma
values hopefully it'll figure that out
relatively soon though in the
sweep anything cool Happening
Here
nope well
oh
uh molecular Dynamics with s brass okay
that's kind of
cool for
let's clean this uh let's start cleaning
all this stuff up for
release this will be a kind of a nice
little uh experiment here so do we use
grid renderer
ever make
render we actually use this
thing what's our render
function I'd really like to imp a
capture the flag like task in
Ocean uh how complicated of a capture
the flag
task that's kind of a good one
actually yeah that's kind of a good
one
um we'd have to expand on the simulator
a little bit which we can possibly do I
don't think I want to immediately go I'm
definitely not feeling up to like doing
a bunch bunch of heavy Sim work right
now so even though that's not too
complicated I think that's more than I'm
capable of doing right at this point
um definitely something we can do for
the future though that's like a really
nice idea for a
task um and it wouldn't be that
difficult I don't think to
implement in the current system we just
have to add like the concept
of we have to add like an attack action
or something we'd have to add a couple
small things for
sure uh you wouldn't need just plus one
entity type like yeah sure you want
something for a
flag um which could just be the food
type to be honest it doesn't matter uh
the thing is that you have to add logic
into the C environment that is specific
to only a single task right and you have
to add like an action you'd have to add
like a tag action or something to get
the flag I think so that would be a
little
awkward if you have a simpler way of
doing it that's like doesn't mess up as
much of the logic of the M then sure you
know I am
wishing it would be really cool if we
had like an engine type thing based on
this that would make it really easy to
add oneoff stuff like that but um and I
think that there will probably be one of
those relatively soon but uh in the time
being I haven't found a better way to do
all of this stuff than just like single
purpose per project for this so there's
like a lot of similar code the snake en
and this en a lot of the code is very
similar
um yeah once I figure that out I think
it's going to be really easy to have a
bajillion different types of tasks and
stuff and capture the flag is a very
good one especially like huge large
scale capture the flag that could be
really cool
yeah well let's do some some nice code
cleanup stuff here
um just a little bit
so the way all these are
defined I probably make this a little
better uh we can look at
okay so this init Predator
prey we can probably make this a little
simpler we might not even need the init
function actually well we do need the
init function for the puffer one
actually so it's okay
just looking for stuff that we can clean
up so we don't need this
anymore we're definitely not including
this type of a
thing this tick plus one goes
here episode Rewards
can
do let's do uh self let's add
a rewards thing to this
this will give a smoother so this is a
nice trick
um what you do is you
do sum rewards.
append rewards
dot
sum and then what we do
we have to add a report interval as well
right so we had a report interval of
32 we had this report interval
and then what you do is you do uh infos
or reward
equals mean divide by the report
interval and then you do self. some
rewards so this gives you a uh this
gives you a much smoother evaluation of
the reward which is useful for hyper
pram hyper prams and stuff whenever
you're reporting you're reporting the
actual ual average reward not the not a
random sample of
it so that's a very nice
update let's fix the renderers next the
renderer should be pretty easy to
fix um this make renderer thing is not
needed we can
do
yeah yeah we don't need this at all
don't need grid renderer we came up with
a better one
already self. client
oops client.
render very
nice um and this RB render is actually
pretty useless I think
is this render kind of useless
for this
one it is
right cuz this is like such a particle
Sim
thing
um I mean the only thing it would be
nice for is to make it human playable
but I like M's to be human playable
H think about that and go check the
hyper pram sweep to make sure it hasn't
crashed all right we got four of
these can see that their uh gamas are
being weirdly sampled
but there'll be progress here you just
have to give it some time it's a Basi
and sweep it you get better over time
I there's these
notifications let me think about the
Raab
render does this make things better
kind of yeah right
uh I think I'm going to mess with the
rayb one later
though I do have the time to do it it's
just I have to think about a few things
with
it well
no I should really just do the renderer
thing even in an M like this it's always
so important to have it be human
playable I couldn't I couldn't just
release this Suite without having it be
human playable
it's really just that
important um and that actually gives me
something really easy to do for a second
which is I need to make the Sprites for
this thing don't
I all right I didn't do it on this
computer here hold on
puffer
128 we're going to make it human
playable and we're going to make it so
you can drive a little puffer fish
around because why
not actually yeah as annoying as that is
that's actually kind of the best thing I
can do right now barely easy pretty
useful for
project um yeah that's exactly the type
of thing I should be doing right
now
so the width of these it's going to
be 128 * 4 is
512 and then 512
right and then what you do is you grab
the puffer we put the puffer
in uh and I'm going
to have to edit these
guys
view
guides
out
or or
zero
zero the mighty puffer indeed oops
did I downscale this as well as I could
have probably
right not
really okay
we're going to grab a better
puffer was a
puff I don't know if that's the updated
puffer let me go grab the updated puffer
off of the
drive I'm going to make
um some different color
puffers
and yeah I'm going to make some
different color puffers that'll be
good and then we're going to use them as
uh the playable
characters for
this yeah it's only four I've got a few
hours to it's like that's a good thing
to do um it's very important that
environments be playable it really just
helps you get a sense of uh of what you
can do in the en it helps you catch bugs
it's it's always worth the investment
and if nobody ever does
it okay
so downloading this on the other page
here
what
the I don't want this thing to
be dude I hate this Doby is the worst
company I swear
where that I don't want it to be
scaled right I don't want this thing to
be scaled I wanted to paste the damn
image into the damn
file like look there's all this AI
garbage on it but I just want to paste
the freaking
image holy hell
I swear it used to be
better okay there it is perfect now I
have a puffer
right
um how big is
he very
big trans form
what is it
uh
size so
that is not what I
wanted how do you
freaking okay apparently you just have
to like make a bunch of files because
none of this none of this UI just does
not make freaking sense at
all
here put puffer fish in
here puffer
fish okay
cool now we
can transform
pixels pixels
can we start a petition for Elon to fire
yine so he can like make a good image
editor
is this
decent it looks kind of blurry doesn't
he for
which these is
better they look the same to me I can't
tell the
difference okay I think it's just 128 by
128 so always going to look weird
blowing up this
much pretty good right
okay
form
flip let's check the directions
yep
clockwise you've heard of puff up but
have you heard of up
puffer this is the up
puffer I get way too much Amusement out
of this
logo technically I'm wondering if I
should
um
wait I shouldn't have to do any of this
right yeah hold
on I think that what I can do
is I only need a 4x4 sheet you I only
need a 4x4
sheet
no yeah I'm realizing now I only need 56
um yeah this is probably probably good
here
for for
okay so
uh Gra
this one's got to
be tinted red doesn't it
we've got red
puff 40
and then we're going to make uh what is
it white puffer slightly red puffer and
then gray puffer okay
so this one here is got to be white
puffer then these are going to be
avatars for
this red puffer
well this is not the slider I want
right how the heck do I do white
puffer like without making it that do
this so we do saturation
well okay I don't know about this one
this this one I know how to do this one
here
is was it was it
uh
yeah so this one's gray Puffer
this
one actually wait this one doesn't need
this this just needs to be like this
okay so we've got this puffer
here and then this one I don't actually
know
brightness and contrast
maybe
brightness could be brightness and
contrast let's do
uh let's sat let's desaturate it
first and then let's
do probably brightness contrast
right well this is not going to be it
right can contrast be
up
down it's kind of cool how that slider
looks looks like that
right I don't really like the way that
this
happens it's not a white
puffer I could do blue Puffer
could do blue
puffer white
food that would probably look better to
be
honest let's do that
instead so I mean this is the blue
puffer right it's it's the puffer blue
um
and then we
do
contrast image
adjustments do like
this
and this one here is going to be super
blue I guess
that's 40
right that's how they do
it that's decent
red puff blue
puff probably just enough
uh
users
buer
okay and now we're going to make uh the
little we're going to make the ERS
controllable in the RL environment and
we're going to make a little cool
visualizer we'll make it playable it'll
be a good
time
okay set map
Sprite sheet path is going to
be
chars we're going to have to
I'm going to have to check the snake
one I did a bunch of work on this the
renderer for snake I
remember yeah so this is how I did the
snake
render um I probably just want to copy
this one as is and just start from here
because this is going to be way
better
yeah this takes width height asset map
tile
size and I do need to change a few
things with this because I want to use
the Sprite sheet but for now we're going
to start without the Sprite
sheet so I just made
it load image from
screen got
controls
um I think I made this
so up
is
-1 and me remember how I did
this zero one so
yeah1 and it's y comma X
but it's actually in terms of
row I think that up is going to
be
[Music]
zero and then down is going to be
two then left is going to
be three and then this is going to be
five I think that's how the actions map
out agent positions you get R in column
um okay well we're going to see what
happens when I do
this and we will
uh you know we'll we'll go from here as
needed but this is going to be a fun
thing to just fix up and have a puffer
renderer thing
just render mode
human see if this does
anything rib render is not
defined asset map is mandatory
colors. to
list yeah we're going to
do same thing here
render
takes three positional arguments but
five were
given
okay grid agent
positions two
five positions
can not be interpret as an
integer this width and height is kind of
funny isn't
it yeah that's not going to go well
let's
see 80 by okay so it's in um
tiles I think so I'm just going to do 80
by 45
here 8
45 then here
in where is it main R plus soft.
height okay the
casts uh okay that was surprisingly
quick to get something to work
I can't tell if I'm moving anything
right can't really tell if you're
moving looks like I'm moving
right I don't know
no wait I wouldn't be moving yet
right because I'm not doing anything
with the
action yeah so
it's if render mode human you do self
dot or actions zero
equal
to self dot
render an
action this
and frame
action self. Human Action
it's not
bad
frame and then this should let us see if
we can actually play
it non type okay
how did I do it in
snake I returned the action
if self. action is not none
perfect it's a very clean and easy way
of doing it isn't it
so now we do
if okay so here is
our
environment that's funny
this these do not seem to be
particularly
good let's fix the controls
two
three well let's do DX and Dy right
the key presses are
annoying because you should be able to
move
in whatever Direction
so yeah I got to
go d
R
BX
y b x
zero B
Yus =
1 Y is equal to
1 b x is1
and we'll just
say cool whatever
where did we discretize
again so if it's discret if it is
discreet
then you
convert so I should be doing a I
guess a ax
um equals to
else something like this man I don't
know and this is
uh two I think
I need to open the
file see how I did
this -1 times discretize should be
faster that doesn't do what I want
though
because it's
012 if it's discret and it's negative 1
yeah so th this is the discrete action
you get 0
one2 and then I could broadcast to
negative
-101 yeah
so I'm getting confused with the
directions as
all um so if
it's if we're discretizing
it shouldn't be negative one it should
be zero I think no one
is yeah this should be
zero otherwise it's equal
to uh -1 I think yeah then here A Y is
equal to two if discretize otherwise one
a x is going to be equal to zero if just
ties otherwise uh no not zero this is
now
three then ax is going to be five
otherwise okay this is correct and now
what we do is if either of these things
are um
and then what ax is going to
be
else
uh what's the default for
ax zero if
discretise no one if discretise El
zero obnoxious I got to tell
you this is
for confusing stuff I
know but that should do
it I don't know I might find a better
way I the goal here is like once I write
enough of these I'm going to find some
cool way to string together like a
little mini engine for this type of
thing so we're just going to have like a
a cool little rayb render for all the RL
environments but until then it's going
to just be single purpose code until I
uh figure that out
it's hard enough as is
all
right is this now
playable see up aror
does
BL nothing
what did we do
um we do self. Human
Action turn
action action equal what the stupid a y
a
x yeah like this
duh yeah
okay now we have
our
game if I press up it goes
down if I press
down I go up wait no if I press
down I also go down I just go down
slower I
guess if I press right I go down
and if I press left I go this
way
why why are the controls
wrong first of all do I have discretise
on
discretize is
true yeah so I have discretise on
right
oh is it supposed to be wait hold
on I think I uh I think I did it
slightly off
I think this is
zero and this is
two and this is probably what two
zero freaking
no there're not that many combinations
we'll just try
them okay
so this makes you go down
slowly this makes you do go down quickly
which doesn't make any freaking
sense and then this makes you go down
slowly this makes you go down quickly
okay doesn't make any goddamn
sense um
ump
actions float actions
discreet minus one is what I have it
as so 012 goes to 1
01 so up should
be up is
zero and down is
two up is is zero down is two
right and how do I have
it up
is
zero down is
two that didn't work for me
before um
02 a y a x
if they're both none then it's none
otherwise you submit an
action let's
do
print s. Human Action
right okay
so press
down down gives you two comma one
so one is the don't move in that
axis when I press up I get four comma
one just makes no sense at
all when I press right I get 2
one left I get 41 okay so something's
completely
oh is this what you meant by too much a
y I like this was just a typo dude
or be real stupid about it
then
controller okay this goes up this goes
[Music]
down goes up this goes down this
goes the right also
goes left works and right goes down
why does right not work because I have
a okay cool now it freaking works now we
got
controls real
basic
down up right
left can we do
diagonal yes I think we can do diagonal
right right can we do
diagonal wait
I press down wait hold
on no why can't I do
diagonal oh because it's
Ells we do like
this okay we can do diagonals
now I didn't know what you meant linky I
thought you were meing okay now we can
do diagonals right now we can do
diagonals now we can do diagonals now we
can do diagonals we can down we can go
up go left or right here and we can go
left cool basic ass controls
done um
that's technically all we need unless I
I mean I could make it doable with the
puffer fish though which would be more
fun render with the puffers
at least I have the basic thing
set I think I want to save the puffers
for when I do
um if I'm going to do
acceleration is that'll look more
interesting
okay
cool
oh let's get rid of the old
renderer we don't need this uh this old
one here there
okay how is
um how is the sweep going is the
question refresh
it okay we got a bunch of runs here we
got 12
runs and
um best scores 0.14 so far
with very concerning gamma values what
in the
hell um
I'm that does not make any sense
whatsoever but
okay gamma values are bizarre
discounting on
this entropy is on the highend it looks
like learning rates on the high end
batches yeah so these are just wonky
settings it's going to take it a while I
guess to figure out uh something better
but it is continuing to run these
experiments so that's
nice didn't video do something cool
okay they're doing stuff for like
rendering and stuff
whatever
cool time is it
5 got time for a few more things to do
today
um let me think where I want to get done
so right now I have it so that
um well actually how do I have it
simulated right now let me
see right it's you just pick your
velocity at any time so like you there's
no
acceleration or
deceleration um
which I guess makes sense because if you
want to match the continuous and the
discreet that's the way that you would
do it so I think that I'm happy with it
being that
way
um you know screw it it's five let's
render um let's try to make the puffer
fish render thing work I think that'll
be fun and it'll make a cool demo
you know why not
right I'll make a puffer fish
render I am going to have to go grab
some of that code I just got rid
of oops folks if you're watching this um
and you enjoy the cool RL stuff give the
puffer a star helps me out a whole
it'd be really funny if I were to render
food as stars in this environment
right oh now I've got to do that that's
so
funny why don't I just make the foraging
environment like puffer fish collecting
Stars that's like the
best advertisement slrl environment ever
right the sanity check environment is
literally train the puffer fish to get
Stars okay let's do it this so stupid
but let's do
that it's 5:00 p.m I'm half asleep it's
going to make a cool demo let's do it
5:00 P pm on Friday what are you
doing surely it's not something so
important as making the puffer fish
collect
stars make it playable on the homepage
of the docs too
so I need somebody who understands the
mess that is web for that um
technically you can
make I'd have to have a server to do the
game logic I think or I'd have to have
like Python scyon and Rib running on web
because I'm not implementing all this
crap in JavaScript
right so yeah I would love to have like
some cool demos on the homepage that
would be awesome but like I need
somebody who understands a way to make
things run on the web without making it
just absolutely God
awful
yeah if you know anybody let me know
wants to make puffer fish eat stars on
the web
David ha had that for a while didn't he
hard site you still have it
oh this is really old where did he have
his oh I guess he changed it he used to
have this really cool thing uh he used
to have this really cool thing where
like the the little Bots would like
follow your cursor around and stuff live
I guess it was too much of a pain to
maintain but man is this
it this is a different one I haven't
even seen this one
Studio
uto you can't spawn too many scroll
down that's so
funny
for for
going grab
this right cheat path
gra
this I'm going to grab this
so so probably this is
fine and
we want the uh the draw Command
right greater than three
we need to pass actions as well now
which is fine soft at
actions right
where's the darn snake renderer
oh wait the snake render is easy isn't
it snake render is way easier than this
yeah
um
well we'll do like
this asset map of it'll just be
tile minus three I think
yeah to minus
three Destra will be column row tile
size and then what's
this s dot
or actually I can just do RL doc colors.
white
right no wait it's
from from RB import
colors snake
uh
278 right so this needs to be
loaded down
here which is
fine just load the puffer
here well that's not what we wanted is
it
just blue
asset map looks fine
okay so the desk direct is
insane so
how is this stupid thing supposed to
work in snake
again
um
aren so
you get the agent position
right this is your agent's
position you go through the surrounding
positions uh the indexing is totally
different that's
why yeah
so it's going to
be source wct is going to
be not I not uh R but
like
j
i is this it is it literally just that
just have the indexing wrong
let's see
so okay so now these destination tiles
actually look reasonable right but I
still don't see anything on this
screen sof dot did it load the puffer
actually did it load the
puffer probably doesn't load the puffer
right if it doesn't load the puffer
nothing's going to show up on the screen
let's see do load the
puffer failed to load
Puffer that was an accurate
diagnosis because there's an underscore
not a dash that would be
why now do you load the puffer fish
now you do load the puffer
fish now look at all these little
puffers ah there's so many
puffers they're so
small they don't turn yet they need to
turn when they move but we have puffers
everywhere which is
excellent any day that starts with
loading puffers everywhere is a great
and glorious day
32 and now we got to decrease the tile
size I still have to get the Stars we
still got to get uh rotate puffers stuff
like that but it's going to be it is
going to be
great this appears not to be divisible
by 32
yes star the puffer very
good very good promotion linky very good
top
tier uh 45 divide by two and 20 we'll
keep
23 something like this maybe and we'll
leave the towel size
Pac-Man and but Pacman I mean you say
that but like I might actually do
that you say that like it's not going to
happen I'd be very suspicious
of of that sort of a
thing might in fact have happen
okay so there's draw a
circle line
spline I don't have a draw Star so I
have to just get a star that's
fine
uh I don't know like free
star uh icon
this one looks fine
right I like
that stop it stop
it you must attribute the author of this
3 seconds of effort
star no thank
you do I have to draw one
where's the GitHub star
icon I mean I might as well it's
like what's their star look like anyways
it's
it's like this outline Star
right I hate how stupid it is trying to
just get basic icons
okay here this is the GitHub star
icon thank
you
freaking it's like oh I downloaded the
PNG in format I gotta get paid
so we're going to do um
what is 128 *
5 that's I did not mean to press
enter times 5 and then we do
128 okay
red
puff blue
puff light red
puff light blue Puff
okay
know what we're just going to copy it
and put in
here CBA with
this e
great oh this actually looks terrible
when you downscale it this way doesn't
it have to actually bother to downscale
it correctly
great oh image
size 1.8
pixels come on
these are too
big was it 1080
this is kind of
obnoxious I want to do 1024
1024 I can exactly downscale
okay
star goes here that looks like that's
slightly better
is that actually the GitHub star icon
it's not
right what do it just mirrors that look
really bad
yeah they have a totally different star
icon that's like the Java Script npm
garbage
one where is it yeah this is the
freaking star isn't it this
one
yeah download licens it's MIT was
the
downloaded for
there we
go now we literally have we will
literally have the environment in which
your objective is to feed the puffer a
star
this one save
yes okay we are now ready to unleash the
puffers
oh
me go get that
script copied it over my freaking start
script
puff puffer tank
Dev eight
months now main is
thir last year no it's 1 oh
right yeah last
month okay perfect now I got my script
back cool
okay no longer
need we do still need the asset map
don't we
six
okay and 0o 1 2 3 4 boot is actually
one and then these are three four five
six
so this is one
this is
three four five and
six
and get rid of this stupid minus
three oh we need to do the the forge
config right I could do uh Tas m. task
forage
right task for
forging key error zero
lovely self. assent map of
zero
328 clear background this needs to be a
color uh Mak
this is the uh the puffer color the
puffer background color that you see on
my ter and everywhere
else integer does not fit in unsigned
Char
really why does it have to fit an
unsigned
Char it should not have to fit in
char draw a
rectangle this is a
color one or
two or
TI tile two
we just
do
zero
this
else
solid
and okay I think that there might have
been a small issue oh no this is
terrible they're eating the puffers the
puffers are eating each other that
was that is
horrific that is not what we
wanted we did not want this to
occur I use the puffer graphic of the
food
ah how did that happen I thought it's
one is food right and then unless maybe
one isn't food and
um yeah one is food what the
hell 3 four five six
right TOS zero
is
this self. asset map is
here is this not it right here
this is it X Y or
YX maybe it's the
wrong let's see how I draw this one
so I draw X first don't
I when I do these D recks so this
is so maybe I did the wrong
order maybe it's zeros
next maybe this
no uh there are puffers now
and the puffer is there are puffers but
the food is
also that doesn't make any sense to
me uh
kind of confused
oh uh the puffer texture didn't get
updated correctly it looks like to
me yeah the puffer texture is not
getting exported correctly
so set it to downloads
right and then we're going to oops
Mount
see buffer
chars puffer tank
slash okay and now we
copy buer puffer
chars
oops R continuous
640 there we
go your job in this environment is to
feed the puffer fish as many stars as
possible your job is to feed the puffer
All of the
Stars this is
hilarious for
think it runs too fast
right 10
FPS and uh we need to figure out how to
rotate how to rotate the
puffers don't
we
yeah it's kind of
hard to figure how to rotate the puffers
though it's fine for now
m
how's our sweep
going nothing super
great this one that does very well uh is
has a somewhat more reasonable
gamma so maybe it'll start exploring a
higher gamma values now we'll
see at least some of these curves are
more stable though that's the main thing
they don't take
forever
e e
one other thing I want to do
here with the
Border left is going to
be where is it
speed do agent speed times
del. Vision range minus
one
okay now I should be able to have fast
puffer right
oops I'll s float to
in speed
I actually think this is
correct
Yep this to group
do three speed
and the seg
fults interesting that that seg
faults I know why it's like BS
Vision range
really still SE
bols speed
speed
um do it still SE fault if I set it to
one
[Music]
why does this not suffice
spawn position cans
is Agent speed times Vision
range which
is I shouldn't even have to do this
right yeah wa I should not even have to
do any of this crap
well actually wait yeah I do I still
have to do this to avoid the bounce
check continu
seriously agent
speed
minus what if I just do like this it's
maybe I maybe I was right to begin with
and the chat jity was dumb that's
usually pretty likely
okay or maybe we're both dumb
right it's the second possible
conclusion
uh hold on wait did I recompile just
then I didn't recompile did I
okay I did
it's it's still wrong we'll leave it as
is actually so we can uh bounce check
through
[Music]
through through
almost done for the night
here okay out of
bounds
ah so
reset I don't know why the hell I set
this this is stupid is what this is
that's a case of the
stupids
um okay so that
runs and now if I disable hold on few
different things to disable
here so we're going to do this
one still
runs
for e
if I make
this continuous now does it still
work yes it does and it actually looks
more reasonable I think because the
puffer doesn't always go three
cells see the puffer doesn't go
crazy
puffer buffer
okay so the puffer
is
good buffer is all
set set this back to one
and uh this is now in a good spot for
now I
think so let
us
R back
let's see if it trains
locally 300,000 steps per second
then the reward will
increase the reward is increasing too
much it should not be able to increase
that much
so something crashed because the reward
went too high that's
interesting reward for forging
is it be 0.1 per food
ah here it is infos of
reward th
rewards over self dot report
interval
self. agents
here there we go that should be
it much
better looks like this is not stable as
well so it needs a hyper pram sweeps
did I leave it on
continuous no that's discretizing
solid Dev day pretty solid Dev
day um well I guess decent enough at
least not crazy
some of these must have crashed no this
is the the current one I guess that's
doing like this Alo the current one's
actually doing pretty
good um yep you can
see that it is starting to catch
on this is like a huge Improvement
right policy by 50 mil same
quality was this is what we were seeing
before where like it would take a while
to get
going this one's
weird well I don't really need to have
this for today anyways
um
six I do want to get some extra sleep
tonight because I've got to do a whole
bunch of stuff tomorrow on a different
environment
um this is all coming together though
like once I find a nice way to put these
renderers together such that I'm happy
with the the way that the visualizations
work and maybe I figure out some ways to
like not have several copies of
virtually identical render and SIM code
right maybe I'll do like a universal
puffer wrapper or whatever and then I
need some experiments then we'll have
this nice simulation update I think
until then I'm probably shouldn't start
any more crazy cool simulation projects
I think I should just kind of grind
these out and uh if I get bored of doing
that during the week uh I might take a
couple days to start on some long form
videos because I promised one on puffer
lib at the very least so I still have to
make that one and then had one other
cool idea as
well this is actually training now so
I'm going to let it train
uh and I'm going to order myself some
food on the side here and then we will
take a look at this trained policy when
I'm done with
that
e
e for
just do like
this
okay there's a nice little place nearby
sushi place nearby I hate sushi but they
also have nice
Tepanyaki of me ayaki
Grill this is almost done does seem to
be
improving um this is actually
so this is a particularly inter
interpretable reward function here this
reward tells us that
uh 32% of the time it is uh the agents
are picking up
food they're actually very good at
picking up food it looks
like or in this case the puffers are
very good at consuming Stars
did you know that you can have 4,000
puer fish consuming stars at a rate
of well according to this number this
would be about 500
no well I don't know how fast inference
runs I mean that's at least a good
500,000 Stars consumed per
second because you have to run the
policy the reward crashing back down is
not particularly
nice I might use the 1,000 checkpoint
instead of the final one if it's going
to be
unstable what's happening entrop is
going back up it looks
like oh if entropy was crashed then
that's probably not a good
thing so maybe entropy going back up is
fine the happening right at the end of
the training run is obnoxious
okay
on is
it EV Val Model F
um okay so this is how they eat the
food this looks like very reasonable
food eating
right very reasonable food consumption
and
then can we save a gift of this
starp puffer
dogf
FPS I think this is actually like a 5
FPS GIF
right and then if you want to have like
a 20
second
GIF 100 is
fine and does it
[Music]
render yeah try
it render Dash mode human
nom nom nom
nom I'd like to get one that doesn't
have the the puffer at the edge of the
map though let's try that
again going puffer n get some Stars
yeah that's
good if only puffer could get stars that
fast we' just be
set okay so that is the GIF the gift
should even look a little better I
think I'm post that in the morning I yes
suppose
I'm
num it's pretty funny
it's pretty efficient at Gathering Stars
I'd
say so uh the plan I guess is that in
the morning I will post this uh since I
don't really do anything
else with that I'll post this in the
morning and
uh yeah tomorrow I'll work on some
environment
stuff when's my food
here should be here pretty soon right
let me
look picking up your order
arriving I am
confused does it have time oh that's
obnoxious well
I think we're good for now then
um I'm going to go
and get some food chill out a bit get uh
ready for longer Dev tomorrow they'll be
off
stream at least for the time being on
Saturday I just do some solo Dev and uh
the plan for next week is going to
depend on how much progress I make on
the other thing and how much longer this
this thing takes
um probably throughout the weekend uh
throughout early next week as well I'm
going to just be running some really
basic hyperparameter sweeps on this
these environments tweaking reward
functions that type of a thing probably
won't have a ton of super interesting
new stuff to do just yet though uh I
need to really clean up these projects
and get them ready for release
yeah other than way that other than that
I will see you later